<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!--
The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Submarine Boys and the Middies by
Victor G. Durham



This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no
restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under
the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or
online at http://www.gutenberg.org/license



Title: The Submarine Boys and the Middies

Author: Victor G. Durham

Release Date: 2006-02-12 [Ebook #17756]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8-->

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd">

<TEI.2 lang="en">
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>The Submarine Boys and the Middies</title>
        <author>Victor G. Durham</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
        <date>2006-02-12</date>
        <idno type='etext-no'>17756</idno>
        <idno type='DPid'>projectID0000000000000</idno>
        <availability>
          <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
          with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
          away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
          License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
        </availability>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <bibl>
          <title>The Submarine Boys and the Middies</title>
          <author>Victor G. Durham</author>
          <imprint>
            <pubPlace>Akron, Ohio</pubPlace>
            <publisher>The Saalfield Publishing Company</publisher>
            <date>1909</date>
          </imprint>
        </bibl>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <encodingDesc>
      <projectDesc>
        <p>Produced by Roger Frank, Taavi Kalju
        and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
        &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/c&gt;.</p>
      </projectDesc>
    </encodingDesc>
    <profileDesc>
      <langUsage>
        <language id="en">English</language>
      </langUsage>
    </profileDesc>
    <revisionDesc>
      <change>
        <date value="2005-12">December 2005</date>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Roger Frank, Taavi Kalju<lb /></name>
          <name>Online Distributed Proofreading Team</name>
        </respStmt>
        <item>Project Gutenberg Edition</item>
       </change>
    <change>
      <date value="2006-6">June 2006</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>Joshua Hutchinson</name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Added PGHeader/PGFooter.</item>
    </change>
    </revisionDesc>
  </teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    figure           { text-align: center; page-float: 'htb' }
    .w100            { }
    .w75             { }
    .w66             { }
    .w50             { }
    .w25             { }
    @media pdf {
      .w100            { width: 100% }
      .w75             { width: 75% }
      .w66             { width: 66% }
      .w50             { width: 50% }
      .w25             { width: 25% }
      }
  </pgStyleSheet>
</pgExtensions>

<text>
<front>

  <div>
    <divGen type="pgheader" />
  </div>

  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <p>This ebook was produced by Roger Frank, Taavi Kalju and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net</p>
  </div>

  <div>

<figure url="images/image01.jpg" rend="w50">
  <anchor id="image01" />
  <index index="fig" />
  <head rend="font-size: x-small"><q>You Are Not Likely to Be of Any Use Here.</q></head>
  <figDesc>Illustration: "You Are Not Likely to Be of Any Use Here."</figDesc>
</figure>

    <p rend="text-align: center">
      <hi rend="font-style: italic"> Frontispiece.</hi>
    </p>
  </div>

  <titlePage rend="page-break-before: right; text-align: center">
    <docTitle>
      <titlePart type="main" rend="font-size: large">The Submarine Boys and the Middies</titlePart><lb /><lb />
      <titlePart type="sub" rend="font-size: small">OR</titlePart><lb /><lb />
      <titlePart type="sub" rend="font-size: large">The Prize Detail at Annapolis</titlePart><lb /><lb />
    </docTitle>
    <byline>
      By <docAuthor>Victor G. Durham</docAuthor><lb /><lb />
      Author of The Submarine Boys on Duty, The Submarine
      Boys' Trial Trip, The Submarine Boys
      and the Spies, Etc.<lb /><lb />
    </byline>
    <docEdition>
      <hi rend="font-style: italic">Illustrated</hi><lb /><lb />
    </docEdition>
    <docImprint>
      THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY<lb />
      Akron, Ohio · New York<lb />
      Made in U.S.A.
    </docImprint>
  </titlePage>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
  <index index="pdf" />
  <head>Contents</head>
  <divGen type="toc" />
</div>

<div rend="page-break-before: always">
  <index index="pdf" />
  <head>List of Figures</head>
  <divGen type="fig" />
</div>
</front>

<body>

<div rend="page-break-before: right">
<pb n="007" /><anchor id="Pg007" />
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER I: THE PRIZE DETAIL</head>

<p>
<q>The United States Government doesn't
appear very anxious to claim its property,
does it, sir?</q> asked Captain Jack
Benson.</p>

<p>The speaker was a boy of sixteen, attired in a
uniform much after the pattern commonly worn
by yacht captains. The insignia of naval rank
were conspicuously absent.</p>

<p><q>Now, that I've had the good luck to sell the
'Pollard' to the Navy,</q> responded Jacob Farnum,
principal owner of the shipbuilding yard,
<q>I'm not disposed to grumble if the Government
prefers to store its property here for a while.</q></p>

<p>Yet the young shipbuilder&mdash;he was a man in
his early thirties, who had inherited this shipbuilding
business from his father&mdash;allowed his
<pb n="008" /><anchor id="Pg008" />
eyes to twinkle in a way that suggested there
was something else behind his words.</p>

<p>Jack Benson saw that twinkle, but he did not
ask questions. If the shipbuilder knew more
than he was prepared to tell, it was not for his
young captain to ask for information that was
not volunteered.</p>

<p>The second boy present, also in uniform, Hal
Hastings by name, had not spoken in five minutes.
That was like Hal. <hi rend="font-style: italic">He</hi> was the engineer
of the submarine torpedo boat, <q>Pollard.</q>
Jack was captain of the same craft, and could
do all the talking.</p>

<p>Jacob Farnum sat back, sideways, at his rolltop
desk. On top of the desk lay stacked a
voluminous though neat pile of papers, letters,
telegrams and memoranda that some rival builders
of submarine torpedo boats might have been
willing to pay much for the privilege of examining.
For, at the present moment, there was
fierce competition in the air between rival
American builders of submarine fighting craft
designed for the United States Navy. Even
foreign builders and inventors were clamoring
for recognition. Yet just now the reorganized
Pollard Submarine Boat Company stood at the
top of the line. It had made the last sale to the
United States Navy Department.</p>

<p>At this moment, out in the little harbor that
<pb n="009" /><anchor id="Pg009" />
was a part of the shipyard, the <q>Pollard</q> rode
gently at anchor. She was the first submarine
torpedo boat built at this yard, after the designs
of David Pollard, the inventor, a close personal
friend of Jacob Farnum.</p>

<p>Moreover, the second boat, named the <q>Farnum,</q>
had just been launched and put in commission,
ready at an hour's notice to take the sea
in search of floating enemies of the United
States.</p>

<p><q>The United States will take its boat one of
these days, Captain,</q> Mr. Farnum continued,
after lighting a cigar. <q>By the way, did Dave
tell you the name we are thinking of for the
third boat, now on the stocks?</q></p>

<p><q>Dave</q> was Mr. Pollard, the inventor of the
Pollard Submarine boat.</p>

<p><q>No, sir,</q> Captain Jack replied.</p>

<p><q>We have thought,</q> resumed Mr. Farnum,
quietly, after blowing out a ring of smoke, <q>of
calling the third boat, now building, the 'Benson.'</q></p>

<p><q>The&mdash;the&mdash;what, sir?</q> stammered Jack,
flushing and rising.</p>

<p><q>Now, don't get excited, lad,</q> laughed the
shipbuilder.</p>

<p><q>But&mdash;but&mdash;naming a boat for the United
States Navy after me, sir&mdash;</q></p>

<p>Captain Jack's face flushed crimson.</p>

<p><pb n="010" /><anchor id="Pg010" />
<q>Of course, if you object&mdash;</q> smiled Mr. Farnum,
then paused.</p>

<p><q>Object? You know I don't, sir. But I am
afraid the idea is going to my head,</q> laughed
Jack, his face still flushed. <q>The very idea of
there being in the United States Navy a fine and
capable craft named after me&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, if the Navy folks object,</q> laughed Farnum,
<q>then they'll change the name quickly
enough. You understand, lad, the names we
give to our boats last only until the craft are
sold. The Navy people can change those names
if they please.</q></p>

<p><q>It will be a handsome compliment to me,
Mr. Farnum. More handsome than deserved, I
fear.</q></p>

<p><q>Deserved, well enough,</q> retorted the shipbuilder.
<q>Dave Pollard and I are well enough
satisfied that, if it hadn't been for you youngsters,
and the superb way in which you handled
our first boat, Dave and I would still be sitting
on the anxious bench in the ante-rooms of the
Navy Department at Washington.</q></p>

<p><q>Well, I don't deserve to have a boat named
after me any more than Hal does, or Eph
Somers.</q></p>

<p><q>Give us time, won't you, Captain?</q> pleaded
Jacob Farnum, his face straight, but his eyes
laughing. <q>We expect to build at least five
<pb n="011" /><anchor id="Pg011" />
boats. If we didn't, this yard never would have
been fitted for the present work, and you three
boys, who've done so handsomely by us,
wouldn't each own, as you now do, ten shares of
stock in this company. Never fear; there'll be
a 'Hastings' and a 'Somers' added to our fleet
one of these days&mdash;even though some of our
boats have to be sold to foreign governments.</q></p>

<p><q>If a boat named the 'Hastings' were sold to
some foreign government,</q> laughed Jack Benson,
<q>Hal, here, wouldn't say much about it.
But call a boat named the 'Somers,' after Eph,
and then sell it, say, to the Germans or the
Japanese, and all of Eph's American gorge
would come to the surface. I'll wager he'd
scheme to sink any submarine torpedo boat,
named after him, that was sold to go under a
foreign flag.</q></p>

<p><q>I hope we'll never have to sell any of our
boats to foreign governments,</q> replied Jacob
Farnum, earnestly. <q>And we won't either, if
the United States Government will give us half
a show.</q></p>

<p><q>That's just the trouble,</q> grumbled Hal
Hastings, breaking into the talk, at last. <q>Confound
it, why don't the people of this country
run their government more than they do?
Four-fifths of the inventors who get up great
things that would put the United States on top,
<pb n="012" /><anchor id="Pg012" />
and keep us there, have to go abroad to find a
market for their inventions! If I could invent
a cannon to-day that would give all the power
on earth to the nation owning it, would the
American Government buy it from me? No,
sir! I'd have to sell the cannon to England,
Germany or Japan&mdash;or else starve while Congress
was talking of doing something about it
in the next session. Mr. Farnum, you have the
finest, and the only real submarine torpedo boat.
Yet, if you want to go on building and selling
these craft, you'll have to dispose of most of
them abroad.</q></p>

<p><q>I hope not,</q> responded the shipbuilder,
solemnly.</p>

<p>Having said his say, Hal subsided. He was
likely not to speak again for an hour. As a
class, engineers, having to listen much to noisy
machinery, are themselves silent.</p>

<p>It was well along in the afternoon, a little past
the middle of October. For our three young
friends, Jack, Hal and Eph, things were dull
just at the present moment. They were drawing
their salaries from the Pollard company, yet
of late there had been little for them to do.</p>

<p>Yet the three submarine boys knew that big
things were in the air. David Pollard was
away, presumably on important business.
Jacob Farnum was not much given to speaking
<pb n="013" /><anchor id="Pg013" />
of plans until he had put them through to the
finish. Some big deal was at present <q>on</q>
with the Government. That much the submarine
boys knew by intuition. They felt,
therefore, that, at any moment, they were likely
to be called into action&mdash;to be called upon for
big things.</p>

<p>As Jack and Hal sat in the office, silent, while
Jacob Farnum turned to his desk to scan one of
the papers lying there, the door opened. A boy
burst in, waving a yellow envelope.</p>

<p><q>Operator said to hustle this wire to you,</q>
shouted the boy, panting a bit. <q>Said it might
be big news for Farnum. So I ran all the
way.</q></p>

<p>Jacob Farnum took the yellow envelope,
opening it and glancing hastily through the
contents.</p>

<p><q>It <hi rend="font-style: italic">is</hi> pretty good news,</q> assented the shipbuilder,
a smile wreathing his face. <q>This is
for you, messenger.</q></p>

<p><q>This</q> proved to be a folded dollar bill.
The messenger took the money eagerly, then
demanded, more respectfully:</p>

<p><q>Any answer, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>Not at this moment, thank you,</q> replied Mr.
Farnum. <q>That is all; you may go, boy.</q></p>

<p>Plainly the boy who had brought the telegram
was disappointed over not getting some
<pb n="014" /><anchor id="Pg014" />
inkling of the secret. All Dunhaven, in fact,
was wildly agog over any news that affected the
Farnum yard. For, though the torpedo boat
building industry was now known under the
Pollard name, after the inventor of these boats,
the yard itself still went under the Farnum
name that young Farnum had inherited from
his father.</p>

<p>While Jacob Farnum is reading the despatch
carefully, for a better understanding, let us
speak for a moment of Captain Jack Benson
and his youthful comrades and chums.</p>

<p>Readers of the first volume in this series,
<q>The Submarine Boys on Duty,</q> remember
how Jack Benson and Hal Hastings strayed into
the little seaport town of Dunhaven one hot
summer day, and how they learned that it was
here that the then unknown but much-talked-about
Pollard submarine was being built. Both
Jack and Hal had been well trained in machine
shops; they had spent much time aboard salt
water power craft, and so felt a wild desire to
work at the Farnum yard, and to make a study
of submarine craft in general.</p>

<p>How they succeeded in getting their start in
the Farnum yard, every reader of the preceding
volumes knows; how, too, Eph Somers, a
native of Dunhaven, managed to <q>cheek</q> his
way aboard the craft after she had been
<pb n="015" /><anchor id="Pg015" />
launched, and how he had always since managed
to remain there.</p>

<p>Our same older readers will remember the
thrilling experiences of this boyish trio during
the early trials of the new submarine torpedo
boat, both above and below the surface. These
readers will remember, also, for instance, the
great prank played by the boys on the watch
officer of one of the stateliest battleships of the
Navy.</p>

<p>Readers of the second volume, <q>The Submarine
Boys' Trial Trip,</q> will recall, among
other things, the desperate efforts made by
George Melville, the capitalist, aided by the latter's
disagreeable son, Don, to acquire stealthy
control of the submarine building company, and
their efforts to oust Jack, Hal and Eph from
their much-prized employment. These readers
will remember how Jack and his comrades
spoiled the Melville plans, and how Captain
Jack and his friends handled the <q>Pollard</q> so
splendidly, in the presence of a board of Navy
officers, that the United States Government was
induced to buy that first submarine craft.</p>

<p>After that sale, each of the three boys received,
in addition to his regular pay, a bank
account of a thousand dollars and ten shares of
stock in the new company. Moreover, Messrs.
Farnum and Pollard had felt wholly justified in
<pb n="016" /><anchor id="Pg016" />
promising these talented, daring, hustling submarine
boys an assured and successful future.</p>

<p>Jacob Farnum at last looked up from the final
reading of the telegram in his hands. Captain
Jack Benson's gaze was fixed on his employer's
face. Hal Hastings was looking out of a window,
with almost a bored look in his eyes.</p>

<p><q>You young men wanted action,</q> announced
Mr. Farnum, quietly. <q>I think you'll get it.</q></p>

<p><q>Soon?</q> questioned Jack, eagerly.</p>

<p><q>Immediately, or a minute or two later,</q>
laughed the shipbuilder.</p>

<p><q>I'm ready,</q> declared Captain Jack, rising.</p>

<p><q>It'll take you a little time to hear about it
all and digest it, so you may as well be seated
again,</q> declared Farnum.</p>

<p>Hal, too, wandered back to his chair.</p>

<p><q>You've been wondering how much longer
the Government would leave the 'Pollard'
here,</q> went on Mr. Farnum. <q>I am informed
that the gunboat 'Hudson' is on her way here,
to take over the 'Pollard.'</q></p>

<p><q>What are the Navy folks going to do?</q> demanded
Captain Jack, all but wrathfully. <q>Do
they propose to <hi rend="font-style: italic">tow</hi> that splendid little craft
away?</q></p>

<p><q>Hardly that, I imagine,</q> replied Farnum.
<q>It's the custom of the United States Navy, you
know, to send a gunboat along with every two
<pb n="017" /><anchor id="Pg017" />
or three submarines. They call the larger craft
the 'parent boat.' The parent boat looks out
for any submarine craft that may become disabled.</q></p>

<p><q>The cheek of it,</q> vented Jack, disgustedly.
<q>Why, sir, I'd volunteer to take the 'Pollard,'
unassisted, around the world, if she could carry
fuel enough for such a trip.</q></p>

<p><q>But the Navy hasn't been accustomed to
such capable submarine boats as ours, you
know,</q> replied Mr. Farnum. <q>Hence the
parent boat.</q></p>

<p><q>Parent boat?</q> interjected Hal Hastings,
with his quiet smile. <q>You might call it the
'Dad' boat, so to speak.</q></p>

<p>Mr. Farnum laughed, then continued:</p>

<p><q>A naval crew will take possession of the
'Pollard,' and the craft will proceed, under the
care of the Dad boat</q>&mdash;with a side glance of
amusement at Hal&mdash;<q>to the United States
Naval Academy at Annapolis.</q></p>

<p><q>Annapolis&mdash;where they train the naval
cadets, the midshipmen, into United States
Naval officers? Oh, how I'd like to go there!</q>
breathed Captain Jack Benson, eagerly.</p>

<p><q>As a cadet in the Navy, do you mean?</q>
asked Mr. Farnum.</p>

<p><q>Why, that would have been well enough,</q>
assented Jack, <q>before I had such a chance in
<pb n="018" /><anchor id="Pg018" />
your submarine service. No; I mean I'd like
to see Annapolis. I'd like to watch the midshipmen
at their training, and see the whole
naval life there.</q></p>

<p><q>It's too bad every fellow can't have his wish
gratified as easily,</q> continued Jacob Farnum.</p>

<p><q>Do you mean we're going to Annapolis,
too?</q> asked Jack Benson, his eyes glowing.
Even Hal Hastings sat up straighter in his
chair, watching the shipbuilder's face closely.</p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> nodded Jacob Farnum. <q>Permission
has been granted for me to send our second
boat, the 'Farnum,' along with the 'Pollard'&mdash;both
under the care of the&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>The Dad boat,</q> laughed Hastings.</p>

<p><q>Yes; that will give us a chance to have the
'Farnum' studied most closely by some of the
most capable officers in the United States Navy.
It ought to mean, presently, the sale of the
'Farnum' to the Government.</q></p>

<p><q>That's just what it will mean,</q> promised
Captain Jack, <q>if any efforts of ours can make
the Navy men more interested in the boat.</q></p>

<p><q>You three youngsters are likely to be at
Annapolis for some time,</q> went on Mr. Farnum.
<q>In fact&mdash;but don't let your heads become
too enlarged by the news, will you?</q></p>

<p>Hal, quiet young Hal, neatly hid a yawn behind
one hand, while Benson answered for both:</p>

<p><pb n="019" /><anchor id="Pg019" />
<q>We're already wearing the largest-sized
caps manufactured, Mr. Farnum. Don't tempt
us too far, please!</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, you boys are safe from the ordinary
perils of vanity, or your heads would have burst
long ago. Well, then, when you arrive at Annapolis,
you three are to act as civilian instructors
to the middies. You three are to teach the
midshipmen of the United States Navy the
principles on which the Pollard type of boat is
run. There; I've told you the whole news.
What do you think of it?</q></p>

<p>Mr. Farnum's cigar having burned low, he
tossed it away, then leaned back as he lighted
another weed.</p>

<p><q>What do we think, sir?</q> echoed Captain
Jack, eagerly. <q>Why, we think we're in sight
of the very time of our lives! Annapolis! And
to teach the middies how to run a 'Pollard' submarine.</q></p>

<p><q>How soon are we likely to have to start,
sir!</q> asked Hal Hastings, after a silence that
lasted a few moments.</p>

<p><q>Whenever the 'Hudson' shows up along this
coast, and the officer in command of her gives
the word. That may be any hour, now.</q></p>

<p><q>Then we'd better find Eph,</q> suggested
Captain Jack, <q>and pass him the word. Won't
Eph Somers dance a jig for delight, though?</q></p>

<p><pb n="020" /><anchor id="Pg020" />
<q>Yes; we'd better look both boats over at
once,</q> replied Mr. Farnum, picking up his hat.
<q>And we'll leave word for Grant Andrews and
some of his machinists to inspect both craft
with us. There may be a few things that will
need to be done.</q></p>

<p>As they left the office, crossing the yard, Captain
Jack Benson and Hal Hastings felt exactly
as though they were walking on air. Even
Hal, quiet as he was, had caught the joy-infection
of these orders to proceed to Annapolis.
To be sent to the United States Naval Academy
on a tour of instruction is what officers of the
Navy often call <q>the prize detail.</q></p>

<p>Farnum and his two youthful companions
went, first of all, to the long, shed-like building
in which the third submarine craft to be
turned out at this yard was now being built.
From inside came the noisy clang of hammers
against metal. The shipbuilder stepped inside
alone, but soon came out, nodding. The three
now continued on their way down to the little
harbor. All of a sudden the three stopped
short, almost with a jerk, in the same second,
as though pulled by a string.</p>

<p>At exactly the same instant Jacob Farnum,
Captain Jack Benson and Engineer Hal Hastings
put up their hands to rub their eyes.</p>

<p>Their senses had told them truly, however.
<pb n="021" /><anchor id="Pg021" />
While the <q>Pollard</q> rode serenely at her moorings,
the <q>Farnum,</q> the second boat to be
launched, was nowhere to be seen!</p>

<p><q>What on earth has happened to the other
submarine?</q> gasped the shipbuilder, as soon
as he could somewhat control his voice.</p>

<p>What, indeed?</p>

<p>There was not a sign of her. At least, she
had not sunk at her moorings, for the buoys
floated in their respective places, with no manner
of tackle attached to them.</p>

<p><q>A submarine boat can't slip its own cables
and vanish without human hands!</q> gasped the
staggered Jack Benson.</p>

<p><q>There's something uncanny about this,</q>
muttered Hal Hastings.</p>

<p>Jacob Farnum stood rooted to the spot, opening
and closing his hands in a way that testified
plainly to the extent of his bewilderment.</p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER II: HOW EPH FLIRTED WITH SCIENCE</head>

<p>
Jack Benson was the first of the trio to
move.</p>

<p>Without a word he broke into a run,
heading for the narrow little shingle of beach.</p>

<p><q>Got an idea, Captain?</q> shouted Jacob Farnum,
<pb n="022" /><anchor id="Pg022" />
darting after his young submarine
skipper.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir!</q> floated back over Jack's shoulder.</p>

<p><q>Then what's at the bottom&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Eph and the boat, both together, or I miss
my guess,</q> Captain Jack shouted back as he
halted at the water's edge, where a rowboat lay
hauled up on the shore.</p>

<p>Jacob Farnum's face showed suddenly pallid
as he, also, reached the beach. Hal, who was
in the rear, did not seem so much startled.</p>

<p><q>Do you think Eph has gone off on a cruise
all alone?&mdash;that he has come to any harm?</q>
gasped the shipbuilder.</p>

<p><q>I don't know, but I'm not going to worry
a mite about Eph Somers until I have to,</q> retorted
Jack Benson, easily.</p>

<p><q>Eph can generally take care of himself,</q>
added Hal Hastings. <q>He rarely falls into
any kind of scrape that he can't climb out
of.</q></p>

<p><q>But this is a bad time for him to take the
'Farnum' and cruise away,</q> objected the owner
of the yard. <q>The 'Hudson' may be here at
any hour, you know, and we ought to be ready
for orders.</q></p>

<p>As he spoke, Mr. Farnum scanned the horizon
away to the south, out over the sea.</p>

<p><q>There's a line of smoke, now, and not many
<pb n="023" /><anchor id="Pg023" />
miles away,</q> he announced. <q>It may, as likely
as not, be smoke from the 'Hudson's' pipe.</q></p>

<p><q>Going out with us, sir?</q> inquired Captain
Jack Benson, as Hal took his place at a pair of
oars.</p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> nodded the owner of the yard, dropping
into a seat at the stern of the boat, after
which Benson pushed off at the bow.</p>

<p>Down on the seashore, on this day just past
the middle of October, the air was keen and
brisk. There had been frost for several nights
past. Sleighing might be looked for in another
month.</p>

<p><q>Cable's gone from this buoy,</q> declared Captain
Jack, as Hal rowed close. <q>Over to the
other one, old fellow.</q></p>

<p>Here, too, the cable was missing. Evidently
the <q>Farnum</q> had made a clean get-away. If
there had been any accident, it must have taken
place after the new submarine boat had slipped
away from her moorings.</p>

<p><q>Humph!</q> grunted Jack, scanning the sea.
<q>No sign of the boat anywhere. Eph may be
anywhere within twenty miles of here.</q></p>

<p><q>Or within twenty feet, either,</q> grinned Hal,
looking down into the waters that were lead-colored
under the dull autumn sky.</p>

<p><q>What are we going to do, Captain?</q> inquired
Jacob Farnum. <q>There are Grant Andrews
<pb n="024" /><anchor id="Pg024" />
and three of his machinists coming down
to the water.</q></p>

<p><q>I reckon, sir, we'd better put them aboard
the 'Pollard' first, sir,</q> Benson suggested.</p>

<p>Mr. Farnum nodding, the boat was rowed in
to the shore and Andrews and his men were
put aboard the <q>Pollard</q> at the platform deck.
Captain Jack Benson unlocking the door to the
conning tower, was himself the first to disappear
down below. When he came back he carried
a line to which was attached a heavy sounding-lead.</p>

<p><q>It won't take us long to sound the deep
spots in this little harbor,</q> said the young skipper,
as he dropped down once more into the
bow of the shore boat. <q>Row about, Hal, over
the places where the submarine could go below
out of sight.</q></p>

<p>As Hal rowed, Skipper Jack industriously
used the sounding-lead.</p>

<p>For twenty minutes nothing resulted from
this exploration. Then, all of a sudden, Benson
shouted:</p>

<p><q>Back water, Hal! Easy; rest on your oars.
Steady!</q></p>

<p>Jack Benson raised the lead two or three
feet, then let it down again, playing it up and
down very much as a cod fisherman uses his
line and hook.</p>

<p><pb n="025" /><anchor id="Pg025" />
<q>I'm hitting something, and it is hardly a
rock, either,</q> declared young Benson. <q>Pull
around about three points to starboard, Hal,
then steal barely forward.</q></p>

<p>Again Benson played see-saw with his sounding-line
over the boat's gunwale.</p>

<p><q>If my lead isn't hitting the 'Farnum,'</q>
declared the young skipper, positively, <q>then
it's the 'Farnum's' ghost. Hold steady, now,
Hal.</q></p>

<p>Immediately afterward, Benson caused the
lead fairly to dance a jig on whatever it touched
at bottom.</p>

<p><q>What's the good of that, anyway?</q> demanded
Jacob Farnum.</p>

<p><q>You don't think I'm doing this just for fun,
do you, sir?</q> asked Captain Jack, with a smile.</p>

<p><q>No; I know you generally have an object
when you do anything unusual,</q> responded the
shipbuilder, good-humoredly.</p>

<p><q>You know, of course, sir, that noises sound
with a good deal of exaggeration when you hear
them under water?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes; of course.</q></p>

<p><q>You also know that all three of us have
been practicing at telegraphy a good deal during
the past few weeks, because every man who
follows the sea ought to know how to send and
receive wireless messages at need.</q></p>

<p><pb n="026" /><anchor id="Pg026" />
<q>Yes; I know that, Benson.</q></p>

<p><q>Well, sir, I guess that the lead has been
hitting the top of the 'Farnum's' hull, and I've
been tapping out the signal&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>The signal, 'Come up&mdash;rush!'</q> broke in
Hal, with an odd smile.</p>

<p><q>Right-o,</q> nodded Jack Benson.</p>

<p><q>How on earth did <hi rend="font-style: italic">you</hi> know what the signal
was, Hastings?</q> demanded Mr. Farnum.</p>

<p><q>Why, sir, I've been sitting so that I could
see Jack's arm. I've been reading, from the
motions of his right arm, the dots and dashes of
the Morse telegraph alphabet.</q></p>

<p><q>You youngsters certainly get me, for the
things you think of,</q> laughed the shipyard's
owner.</p>

<p><q>And the 'Farnum,' or whatever it is, is coming
up,</q> called Captain Jack, suddenly. <q>I just
felt my lead slide down over the top of her hull.
Hard-a-starboard, Hal, and row hard,</q> shouted
young Benson, breathlessly.</p>

<p>Though Hastings obeyed immediately he was
barely an instant too soon. To his dismay, Mr.
Farnum saw something dark, unwieldy, rising
through the water. It appeared to be coming
up fairly under the stern of the shore boat,
threatening to overturn the little craft and
plunge them all into the icy water.</p>

<p>Hal shot just out of the danger zone, though.
<pb n="027" /><anchor id="Pg027" />
Then a round little tower bobbed up out of the
water. Immediately afterward the upper third
of a long, cigar-shaped craft came up into view,
water rolling from her dripping sides, which
glistened brightly as the sun came out briefly
from behind a fall cloud.</p>

<p>In the conning tower, through the thick plate
glass, the three people in the shore boat made
out the carroty-topped head and freckled,
good-humored, honest, homely face of Eph
Somers. The boat lay on the water, under no
headway, drifting slightly with the wind-driven
ripples. Then Eph raised the man-hole cover
of the top of the conning tower, thrusting out
his head to hail them.</p>

<p><q>Hey, you landsmen, do you know a buoy
from an umbrella?</q></p>

<p><q>Do <hi rend="font-style: italic">you</hi> know the difference between a Sunday-school
text and petty larceny?</q> retorted
Jack Benson, sternly. <q>What do you mean by
taking the submarine without leave?</q></p>

<p><q>I've been experimenting&mdash;flirting with
science,</q> responded Eph, loftily. <q>Say, if you
landsmen know a buoy from a banana, get down
to the bow moorings of this steel mermaid, and
I'll pass you the bow cable. It's a heap easier
to lead this submarine horse out of the stall,
single-handed, than it is to take him back and
tie him.</q></p>

<p><pb n="028" /><anchor id="Pg028" />
Hal rowed easily to the buoy, while Eph, returning
to the steering wheel and the tower controls,
ran the <q>Farnum,</q> with just bare headway,
up to where he could toss the bow cable to
those waiting in the boat. A few moments later
the stern cable, also, was made fast, in such a
way as to allow a moderate swing to the bulky
steel craft.</p>

<p><q>Now, you can take me ashore, if you feel
like it,</q> proposed Eph, standing on the platform
deck.</p>

<p><q>Not quite yet,</q> returned Skipper Jack,
though the small boat lay alongside. <q>We've
got some inspecting to do. But how did you get
on board in the first place?</q></p>

<p><q>Why, the night watchman was in the yard
for a few minutes, and I got him to put me on
board. I figured I could hail somebody else
when I was ready to go on shore.</q></p>

<p><q>But what on earth made you do such a
thing?</q> demanded Captain Jack, in a low tone.
<q>It's really more than you had a right to do,
Eph, without getting Mr. Farnum's permission.</q></p>

<p><q>Why, I've known you to take the 'Pollard'
and try something when Mr. Farnum wasn't
about,</q> retorted Somers, looking surprised.</p>

<p><q>You never knew me to do it when I could
ask permission, although, as captain, I have the
<pb n="029" /><anchor id="Pg029" />
right to handle the boat. But that leave doesn't
extend to all the rest, Eph. What were you
doing down there, anyway?</q></p>

<p><q>Why, I came on board, and left the manhole
open for ten minutes,</q> answered Somers.
<q>Then I found the cabin thermometer standing
at 49 degrees. I wondered how much warmth
could be gained by going below the surface.
I had been down an hour and five minutes
when you began to signal with that sledge-hammer&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Sounding-lead,</q> Jack corrected him.</p>

<p><q>Well, it sounded like a sledge-hammer, anyway,</q>
grinned young Somers. <q>While I was
down below I found that the temperature rose
four degrees.</q></p>

<p><q>Part of that was likely due to the warmth of
your body, and the heat of the breath you gave
off,</q> hinted Benson.</p>

<p><q>You could have gotten it up to eighty
or ninety degrees by turning on the electric
heater far enough,</q> suggested Hal.</p>

<p><q>I wanted to see whether it would be warmer
in the depths; wanted to find out how low I could
go and be able to do without heat in winter,</q>
Somers retorted.</p>

<p><q>I could have told you that, from my reading,
without any experiment,</q> retorted Skipper
Jack. <q>Close your conning tower and go down
<pb n="030" /><anchor id="Pg030" />
a little way, and the temperature would gradually
rise a few degrees. That's because of the
absence of wind and draft. But, if you could
go down very, very deep without smashing the
boat under the water pressure, you'd find the
temperature falling quite a bit.</q></p>

<p><q>Where did you read all that?</q> inquired
Eph, looking both astonished and sheepish.</p>

<p><q>Here,</q> replied Jack, going to a small wall
book-case, taking down a book and turning
several pages before he stopped.</p>

<p><q>Just my luck,</q> muttered Eph, disconsolately.
<q>Here I've been dull as ditch-water
for an hour, trying to find out something new,
and it's all stated in a book printed&mdash;ten years
ago,</q> he finished, after rapidly consulting the
title-page.</p>

<p>Jacob Farnum had been no listener to this
conversation. Taking the marine glasses from
the conning tower, the shipbuilder was now well
forward on the platform deck, scanning what
was visible of the steam craft to the southward.
At last the yard's owner turned around to say:</p>

<p><q>I don't believe you young men can have
things ship-shape a second too soon. The craft
heading this way has a military mast forward.
She must be the 'Hudson.' If there's anything
to be done, hustle!</q></p>

<p>Jack and Hal sprang below, to scan their respective
<pb n="031" /><anchor id="Pg031" />
departments. Five minutes later Grant
Andrews hailed from the <q>Pollard,</q> and Eph
rowed over in the shore boat to ferry over the
machinists.</p>

<p>Half an hour later Andrews and his men had
put in the few needed touches aboard the newer
submarine boat. The sun, meanwhile, had gone
down, showing the hull of a naval vessel some
four miles off the harbor.</p>

<p>Darkness came on quickly, with a clouded sky.
As young Benson stepped on deck Grant Andrews
followed him.</p>

<p><q>All finished here, Grant?</q> queried the
yard's owner.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir. There's mighty little chance to
do anything where Hal Hastings has charge of
the machinery.</q></p>

<p><q>That's our gunboat out there, I think,</q> went
on Mr. Farnum, pointing to where a white masthead
light and a red port light were visible,
about a mile away.</p>

<p><q>Dunhaven must be on the map, all right,
if a strange navigating officer knows how to
come so straight to the place,</q> laughed Jack
Benson.</p>

<p><q>Oh, you trust a United States naval officer
to find any place he has sailing orders for,</q> returned
Jacob Farnum. <q>I wonder if he'll
attempt to come into this harbor?</q></p>

<p><pb n="032" /><anchor id="Pg032" />
<q>There's safe anchorage, if he wants to do
so,</q> replied Captain Jack.</p>

<p>While Somers was busy putting the foreman
and the machinists ashore, Mr. Farnum, Jack
and Hal remained on the platform deck, watching
the approach of the naval vessel, which was
now plainly making for Dunhaven.</p>

<p>Suddenly, a broad beam of glaring white light
shot over the water, resting across the deck of
the <q>Farnum.</q></p>

<p><q>I guess that fellow knows what he wants to
know, now,</q> muttered Benson, blinking after
the strong glare had passed.</p>

<p><q>There, he has picked up the 'Pollard,' too,</q>
announced Hastings. <q>Now, that commander
must feel sure he has sighted the right place.</q></p>

<p><q>There go the signal lights,</q> cried Captain
Jack, suddenly. <q>Hal, hustle below and turn
on the electric current for the signaling
apparatus.</q></p>

<p>Then Benson watched as, from the yards high
up on the gunboat's signaling mast, colored
electric lights glowed forth, twinkling briefly in
turn. This is the modern method of signaling
by sea at night.</p>

<p><q>He wants to know,</q> said Benson, to Mr.
Farnum, as he turned, <q>whether there is safe
anchorage for a twelve-hundred-ton gunboat of
one hundred and ninety-five feet length.</q></p>

<p><pb n="033" /><anchor id="Pg033" />
Reaching the inside of the conning tower at a
bound, the young skipper rapidly manipulated
his own electric signaling control. There was
a low mast on the <q>Farnum's</q> platform deck,
a mast that could be unstepped almost in an
instant when going below surface. So Captain
Jack's counter-query beamed out in colors
through the night:</p>

<p><q>What's your draught?</q></p>

<p><q>Under present ballast, seventeen-eight,</q>
came the answer from the gunboat's signal
mast.</p>

<p><q>Safe anchorage,</q> Captain Jack signaled
back.</p>

<p><q>Can you meet us with a pilot?</q> questioned
the on-coming gunboat.</p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> Captain Jack responded.</p>

<p><q>Do so,</q> came the laconic request.</p>

<p><q>That's all, Hal,</q> the young skipper called,
through the engine room speaking tube. <q>Want
to row me out and put me aboard the gunboat?</q></p>

<p>In another jiffy the two young chums had
put off in the boat, Hal at the oars, Jack at the
tiller ropes. The gunboat was now lying to,
some seven hundred yards off the mouth of the
little harbor. Hastings bent lustily to the oars,
sending the boat over the rocking water until
he was within a hundred yards of the steam
craft's bridge.</p>

<p><pb n="034" /><anchor id="Pg034" />
<q>Gun boat ahoy!</q> roared Hal, between his
hands. Then, by a slip of the tongue, and
wholly innocent of any intentional offense, he
bellowed:</p>

<p><q>Is that the 'Dad' boat?</q></p>

<p><q>What's that?</q> came a sharp retort from
the gunboat's bridge. <q>Don't try to be funny,
young man!</q></p>

<p><q>Beg your pardon, sir. That was a slip of
the tongue,</q> Hal replied, meekly, as he colored.
<q>Are you the gunboat 'Hudson?'</q></p>

<p><q>No; I'm her commanding officer, young
man! Who in blazes are you?</q></p>

<p><q>I'm the goat, it seems,</q> muttered Hastings,
under his breath. But, aloud, he replied:</p>

<p><q>I have the pilot you requested.</q></p>

<p><q>Then why don't you bring him on board?</q>
came the sharp question. <q>Did you think I
only wanted to look at a pilot?</q></p>

<p><q>All right, sir. Shall I make fast to your
starboard side gangway?</q> Hal called.</p>

<p><q>In a hurry, young man!</q></p>

<p><q>That's the naval style, I guess,</q> murmured
Jack to his chum. <q>No fooling in the talk. I
wonder if that fellow eats pie? Or is his temper
due to coffee?</q></p>

<p>Answering only with a quiet grin, Hal rowed
alongside the starboard side gangway. Jack,
waiting, sprang quickly to the steps, ascending,
<pb n="035" /><anchor id="Pg035" />
waving his hand to Hal as he went. Young
Hastings quickly shoved off, then bent to his
oars.</p>

<p><q>Where's the pilot?</q> came a stern voice,
from the bridge, as Jack Benson's head showed
above the starboard rail.</p>

<p><q>I am the pilot, sir,</q> Jack replied.</p>

<p><q>Why, you're a boy.</q></p>

<p><q>Guilty,</q> Jack responded.</p>

<p><q>What does this fooling mean? You're not
old enough to hold a pilot's license.</q></p>

<p>By this time Benson was on the deck, immediately
under the bridge. A half dozen sailors,
forward, were eyeing him curiously.</p>

<p><q>I have no license, sir,</q> Jack admitted.
<q>Neither has anyone else at Dunhaven. For
that matter, the harbor's a private one, belonging
to the shipyard.</q></p>

<p><q>Hasn't Mr. Farnum a <hi rend="font-style: italic">man</hi> he can send
out?</q></p>

<p><q>No one who knows the harbor better than I
do, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>Who are you? What are you?</q></p>

<p><q>Jack Benson, sir. Captain of the Pollard
submarine boats.</q></p>

<p><q>Why didn't you tell me that before?</q></p>

<p>The question came sharply, almost raspingly.</p>

<p><q>Beg your pardon, sir, but you didn't ask
me,</q> Jack replied.</p>

<p><pb n="036" /><anchor id="Pg036" />
<q>Come up here, Benson,</q> ordered the lieutenant
commander, in a loud voice intended to
drown out the subdued titter of some of the
sailors forward.</p>

<p>Jack ascended to the bridge, to find himself
facing a six-footer in his early thirties. There
was a younger officer at the far end of the
bridge.</p>

<p><q>Does Mr. Farnum consider you capable of
showing us the way into the harbor?</q> demanded
the commanding officer of the <q>Hudson.</q></p>

<p><q>I think so, sir. He trusts me with his own
boats.</q></p>

<p><q>Then you are&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Benson, Mr. Farnum's captain of the submarine
boats.</q></p>

<p>Lieutenant Commander Mayhew gazed in astonishment
for a moment, then held out his
hand as he introduced himself, remarking:</p>

<p><q>I was told that I would find a very young
submarine commander here, but&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>You didn't expect to find one quite as
young,</q> Jack finished, smiling.</p>

<p><q>No; I didn't. Mr. Trahern, I want you to
know Captain Jack Benson, of the Pollard
submarines.</q></p>

<p>Ensign Trahern also shook hands with young
Benson.</p>

<p><pb n="037" /><anchor id="Pg037" />
<q>And now,</q> went on the commander of the
<q>Hudson,</q> <q>I think you may as well show us
the way into the harbor.</q></p>

<p><q>You'll want to go at little more than headway,
sir,</q> Jack replied. <q>The harbor is small,
though there's enough deep water for you. In
parts there are some sand ledges that the tide
washes up.</q></p>

<p><q>I can't allow you to pilot us, exactly, but
you'll indicate the course to me, won't you, Mr.
Benson?</q></p>

<p>The <q>mister</q> was noticeable, now. Naval
officers are chary of their bestowal of the title
<q>captain</q> upon one who does not hold it in
the Army or Navy service.</p>

<p>At Mr. Mayhew's order the <q>Hudson</q> was
started slowly forward, the searchlight playing
about the entrance to the harbor.</p>

<p><q>For your best anchorage, sir,</q> declared
Captain Jack, after he had brought the gunboat
slowly into the harbor, <q>you will do well
to anchor with that main arc-light dead ahead,
that shed over there on your starboard beam,
and the front end of the submarine shed about
four points off your port bow.</q></p>

<p>Mr. Mayhew slowly man&oelig;uvred his craft,
while men stood on the deck below, forward,
prepared to heave the bow anchors.</p>

<p><q>Go four points over to port, Mr. Trahern,</q>
<pb n="038" /><anchor id="Pg038" />
instructed Mr. Mayhew. <q>Now, back the engines&mdash;steady!</q></p>

<p>Jack Benson opened his mouth wide. Then,
as he saw the way the <q>Hudson</q> was backing,
he suddenly called:</p>

<p><q>Slow speed ahead, quick, sir!</q></p>

<p><q>You said&mdash;</q> began Mr. Mayhew.</p>

<p>Gr-r-r-r! The stern of the gunboat dug its
way into a sand ledge, lifting the stern considerably.</p>

<p><q>Slow speed ahead!</q> rasped Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew, sharply.</p>

<p>But the gunboat could not be budged. She
was stuck, stern on, fast in the sand-ledge.</p>

<p><q>Benson!</q> uttered the lieutenant commander,
bitterly, <q>I congratulate you. You've succeeded
in grounding a United States Naval
vessel!</q></p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER III: <q>YOU MAY AS WELL LEAVE THE BRIDGE!</q></head>

<p>
There was so much of overwhelming
censure in the naval officer's tone that
Jack's spirit was stung to the quick.</p>

<p><q>It's your mistake, sir,</q> he retorted. <q>You
didn't follow the course I advised. You swung
the ship around to port, and&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Silence, now, if you please, while men are
<pb n="039" /><anchor id="Pg039" />
trying to get this vessel out of a scrape a boy
got her into,</q> commanded Mr. Mayhem, sternly.</p>

<p>Jack flushed, then bit his tongue. In another
moment a pallor had succeeded the red in his
face.</p>

<p>He was blamed for the disaster, and he was
not really at fault.</p>

<p>Yet, under the rebuke he had just received,
he did not feel it his place to retort further for
the present.</p>

<p>Mr. Mayhew and Mr. Trahern conferred in
low tones for a moment or two.</p>

<p><q>You may as well leave the bridge, young
man,</q> resumed Mr. Mayhew, turning upon the
submarine boy. <q>You are not likely to be of
any use here.</q></p>

<p>As Jack, burning inwardly with indignation,
though managing to keep outwardly calm, descended
to the deck below, he caught sight of
Hal Hastings, hovering near in the rowboat.
Hal signaled to learn whether he should put in
alongside to take off his chum, but Benson
shook his head.</p>

<p>Over on the <q>Farnum</q> the yard's owner and
Eph Somers watched wonderingly. They understood,
well enough, that the new, trim-looking
gunboat was in trouble, but they did not
know that Jack Benson was held at fault.</p>

<p>Down between decks the engines of the <q>Hudson</q>
<pb n="040" /><anchor id="Pg040" />
were toiling hard to run the craft off out
of the sand. Then the machinery stopped. An
engineer officer came up from below. He and
Mr. Mayhew walked to the stern, while a seaman,
accompanying them, heaved the lead,
reading the soundings.</p>

<p><q>We're stuck good and fast,</q> remarked the
engineer officer. <q>We can't drive off out of
that sand for the reason that the propellers are
buried in the grit. They'll hardly turn at all,
and, when they do, they only churn the sand
without driving us off.</q></p>

<p><q>Confound that ignoramus of a boy!</q> muttered
Mr. Mayhew, walking slowly forward. It
was no pleasant situation for the lieutenant commander.
Having run his vessel ashore, he
knew himself likely to be facing a naval board
of inquiry.</p>

<p>Hal, finding that the shore boat was not
wanted for the present, had rowed over to the
<q>Farnum's</q> moorings. Now Jacob Farnum
came alongside in the shore boat.</p>

<p><q>May I speak with your watch officer?</q> he
called.</p>

<p><q>I am the commanding officer,</q> Mr. Mayhew
called down, in the cold, even, dulled voice
of a man in trouble.</p>

<p><q>I am Mr. Farnum, owner of the yard. May
I come on board?</q></p>

<p><pb n="041" /><anchor id="Pg041" />
<q>Be glad to have you,</q> Lieutenant Commander
Mayhew responded.</p>

<p>So Mr. Farnum went nimbly up over the side.</p>

<p><q>May I ask what is the trouble here, sir?</q>
asked the yard's owner.</p>

<p><q>The trouble is,</q> replied Mr. Mayhew, <q>that
your enterprising boy pilot has run us aground&mdash;hard,
tight and fast!</q></p>

<p>Jacob Farnum glanced swiftly at his young
captain. Jack shook his head briefly in dissent.
Jacob Farnum, with full confidence in his young
man, at once understood that there was more yet
to be learned.</p>

<p><q>Come up on the bridge, sir, if you will,</q> requested
the commander of the gunboat, who was
a man of too good breeding to wish any dispute
before the men of the crew. <q>You may come,
too, Benson.</q></p>

<p>Jack followed the others, including the
engineer officer of the <q>Hudson.</q> Yet Benson
was clenching his hands, fighting a desperate
battle to get full command over himself. It
was hard&mdash;worse than hard&mdash;to be unjustly
accused.</p>

<p>Jacob Farnum wished to keep on the pleasantest
terms with these officers of the Navy. At
the same time he was man enough to feel determined
that Jack, whether right or wrong, should
have a full chance to defend himself.</p>

<p><pb n="042" /><anchor id="Pg042" />
<q>I understand, sir,</q> began Mr. Farnum,
<q>that you attach some blame in this matter to
young Benson?</q></p>

<p><q>Perhaps he is not to be blamed too much, on
account of his extreme youth,</q> responded Mr.
Mayhew.</p>

<p><q>Forget his youth altogether,</q> urged Mr.
Farnum. <q>Let us treat him as a man. I've
always found him one, in judgment, knowledge
and loyalty. Do you mind telling me, sir, in
what way he erred in bringing you in here?</q></p>

<p><q>An error in giving his advice,</q> replied
Mr. Mayhew. <q>Or else it was ignorance of how
to handle a craft as large as this gunboat. For
my anchorage he told me&mdash;</q></p>

<p>Here the lieutenant commander repeated the
first part of Jack's directions correctly, but
wound up with:</p>

<p><q>He advised me to throw my wheel over four
points to port.</q></p>

<p><q>Pardon me, sir,</q> Jack broke in, unable to
keep still longer. <q>What I said, or intended to
say, was to bring your vessel so that the forward
end of the submarine shed over there would be
four points off the port bow.</q></p>

<p><q>What did you hear Mr. Benson say, Mr.
Trahern?</q> demanded the gunboat's commander,
turning to the ensign who had stood
with him on the bridge.</p>

<p><pb n="043" /><anchor id="Pg043" />
<q>Why, sir, I understood the lad to say what
he states that he said.</q></p>

<p><q>You are sure of that, Mr. Trahern?</q></p>

<p><q>Unless my ears tricked me badly,</q> replied
the ensign, <q>Mr. Benson said just what he now
states. I wondered, sir, at your calling for slow
speed astern.</q></p>

<p>Lieutenant Commander Mayhew gazed for
some moments fixedly at the face of Ensign
Trahern. Then, of a sudden, the gunboat's
commander, who was both an officer and a gentleman,
broke forth, contritely:</p>

<p><q>As I think it over, I believe, myself, that
Benson advised as he now states he did. It was
my own error&mdash;I am sure of it now.</q></p>

<p>Wheeling about, Mayhew held out his right
hand.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson,</q> he said, in a deep voice full of
regret, <q>I was the one in error. I am glad to
admit it, even if tardily. Will you pardon my
too hasty censure?</q></p>

<p><q>Gladly, sir,</q> Benson replied, gripping the
proffered hand. Jacob Farnum stood back,
wagging his head in a satisfied way. It had
been difficult for him to believe that his young
captain had been at fault in so simple a matter,
or in a harbor with which he was so intimately
acquainted.</p>

<p>As for the young man himself, the thing that
<pb n="044" /><anchor id="Pg044" />
touched him most deeply was the quick, complete
and manly acknowledgment of this lieutenant
commander.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Farnum,</q> inquired the gunboat's commander,
<q>have you any towboats about here
that can be used in helping me to get the 'Hudson'
off this sand ledge?</q></p>

<p><q>The only one in near waters, sir,</q> replied
the yard's owner, <q>is a craft, not so very much
larger than a launch, that ties up some three
miles down the coast. She's the boat I use when
I need any towing here. Of course, I have the
two torpedo boats, though their engines were
not constructed for towing work.</q></p>

<p><q>May I offer a suggestion?</q> asked Jack,
when the talk lagged.</p>

<p><q>I'll be glad to have you, Mr. Benson,</q> replied
Mr. Mayhew, turning toward the submarine
boy.</p>

<p><q>Flood tide will be in in about two hours and
a half, sir,</q> Benson followed up. <q>That ought
to raise this vessel a good deal. Then, with the
towboat Mr. Farnum has mentioned, and with
such help as the engines of the submarines may
give, together with your own engines, Mr. Mayhew,
I think there ought to be a good chance of
getting the 'Hudson' afloat with plenty of water
under her whole keel. We can even start some
of the engines on shore, and rig winches to haul
<pb n="045" /><anchor id="Pg045" />
on extra cables. Altogether, we can give you a
strong pull, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>That sounds like the best plan to me,</q>
nodded Jacob Farnum. <q>I'll have a message
sent at once for that towboat.</q></p>

<p>A white-coated steward now appeared on
deck, moving near the lieutenant commander.</p>

<p><q>Is dinner ready, Greers?</q> called Mr. Mayhew.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>Lay two more plates, then. Mr. Farnum, I
trust you and your young submarine commander
will sit as my guests to-night.</q></p>

<p>This invitation the yard's owner accepted,
asking only time enough to arrange for keeping
some of his workmen over-time, awaiting the
coming of flood-tide.</p>

<p>So, presently, Jack and his employer found
themselves seated at table in the gunboat's
handsome wardroom. Besides the lieutenant
commander there were Lieutenant Halpin, two
ensigns, two engineer officers and a young medical
officer. In the <q>Hudson's</q> complement of
officers there were also four midshipmen, but
these latter ate in their own mess.</p>

<p>The time passed most pleasantly, Mr. Mayhew
plainly doing all in his power to atone for
his late censure of the submarine boy.</p>

<p>Before dinner was over the small towboat was
<pb n="046" /><anchor id="Pg046" />
in the harbor. At the coming of flood tide this
towing craft had a hawser made fast to the gunboat.
With the help of some of the naval
machinists aboard the <q>Hudson,</q> both submarine
craft were also manned and hawsers
made fast. Two cables were passed ashore to
winches to which power was supplied by the
shipyard's engines. When all was ready a
mighty pull was given, the gunboat's own propellers
taking part in the struggle. For two or
three minutes the efforts continued. Then, at
last, the <q>Hudson,</q> uninjured, ran off into deep
water and shortly afterwards anchored in
safety.</p>

<p>It was a moment of tremendous relief for
Mr. Mayhew.</p>

<p><q>Call the tugboat captain aboard, and I'll
settle with him at my own expense,</q> proposed
the lieutenant commander.</p>

<p><q>I trust you will think of nothing of the sort,</q>
replied Jacob Farnum, quickly. <q>In this harbor
I wish to consider you and your vessel as
my guests.</q></p>

<p>Again Mr. Mayhew expressed his thanks.
Presently, glancing ashore through the night, he
asked:</p>

<p><q>What sort of country is it hereabouts?</q></p>

<p><q>Mostly flat, as to the surface,</q> Mr. Farnum
replied. <q>If your question goes further, there
<pb n="047" /><anchor id="Pg047" />
are some fine roads and several handsome
estates within a few miles of here. Mr. Mayhew,
won't you and a couple of your officers
come on shore with me? I'll telephone for my
car and put you over quite a few miles this
evening.</q></p>

<p><q>Delighted,</q> replied the commander of the
gunboat.</p>

<p>One of the <q>Hudson's</q> cutters being now in
the water alongside, the party went ashore in
this. Jack, after bidding the naval officers
good-night, found Hal and Eph, who had just
come ashore from supper on board the <q>Farnum.</q></p>

<p><q>No sailing orders yet, I suppose?</q> Hal
asked.</p>

<p><q>None,</q> Jack replied. <q>I reckon we'll start,
all right, some time to-morrow morning.</q></p>

<p><q>What'll we do to-night?</q> Eph wondered.</p>

<p><q>I don't know,</q> replied Jack. <q>We've few
friends around here we need to take the trouble
to say good-bye to. We could call on Mrs. Farnum,
but I imagine we'd run into the naval party
up at the Farnum house. We want to keep a bit
in the background with these naval officers,
except when they may ask for our company.</q></p>

<p><q>Let's take a walk about the old town, then,</q>
Hal suggested.</p>

<p>So the three submarine boys strolled across
<pb n="048" /><anchor id="Pg048" />
the shipyard. Just as they were passing
through the gate a man of middle height and
seemingly about thirty years of age quickened
his pace to reach them.</p>

<p><q>Is this shipyard open nights?</q> he queried.</p>

<p><q>Only to some employees,</q> Jack answered.</p>

<p><q>I suppose Mr. Farnum isn't about?</q></p>

<p><q>No.</q></p>

<p><q>Captain Benson?</q></p>

<p><q>Benson is my name.</q></p>

<p><q>This letter is addressed to Mr. Farnum,</q>
went on the stranger, <q>but Mr. Pollard told me
I could hand it to you.</q></p>

<p>Captain Jack took the letter from the unsealed
envelope.</p>

<p><q>My dear Farnum,</q> ran the enclosure,
<q>since you're short a good machinist for the
engine room of the 'Farnum,' the bearer, Samuel
Truax, seems to me to be just the man you
want. I've examined him, and he understands
the sort of machinery we use. Better give him
a chance.</q> The note was signed in David Pollard's
well-known, scrawly handwriting.</p>

<p><q>I'm sorry you can't see Mr. Farnum to-night,</q>
said Benson, pleasantly. <q>He'll be
here early in the morning, though.</q></p>

<p><q>When do you sail?</q> asked Truax, quickly.</p>

<p><q>That you would have to ask Mr. Farnum,
too,</q> smiled Jack.</p>

<p><pb n="049" /><anchor id="Pg049" />
<q>But, see here, Mr. Pollard engaged me to
work aboard one of your submarines.</q></p>

<p><q>It looks that way, doesn't it?</q> laughed the
young skipper.</p>

<p><q>And you're the captain?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes; but I can't undertake to handle Mr.
Farnum's business for him.</q></p>

<p><q>You'll let me go aboard the craft to sleep
for to-night, anyway?</q> coaxed Truax.</p>

<p><q>Why, that's just what I'm not at liberty to
do,</q> replied the young submarine captain.
<q>No; I couldn't think of that, in the absence
of Mr. Farnum's order.</q></p>

<p><q>But that doesn't seem hardly fair,</q> protested
Truax. <q>See here, I have spent all my
money getting here. I haven't even the price
of a lodging with me, and this isn't a summer
night.</q></p>

<p><q>Why, I'll tell you what I'll do,</q> Benson
went on, feeling in one of his pockets. <q>Here's
a dollar. That'll buy you a bed and a breakfast
at the hotel up the street. If you want to get
aboard with us in time, you'd better show up
by eight in the morning.</q></p>

<p><q>But&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>That's really all I can do,</q> Jack Benson
hastily assured the fellow. <q>I'm not the
owner of the boat, and I can't take any liberties.
Oh, wait just a moment. I'll see if there's
<pb n="050" /><anchor id="Pg050" />
any chance of Mr. Farnum coming back to-night.</q></p>

<p>Jack knew well enough that there wasn't any
chance of Mr. Farnum returning, unless possibly
at a very late hour with the naval officers, but
the boy had seen the night watchman peering
out through the gateway.</p>

<p>Retracing his steps, Jack drew the night
watchman inside, whispering:</p>

<p><q>Just a pointer for you. You've seen that
man on the street with us? He has a letter
from Mr. Pollard to Mr. Farnum, but I wouldn't
let him in the yard to-night, unless Mr. Farnum
appears and gives the order.</q></p>

<p><q>I understand,</q> said the night watchman,
nodding.</p>

<p><q>That's all, then, and thank you.</q></p>

<p>Jack Benson hastily rejoined the others on
the sidewalk.</p>

<p><q>I don't believe, Mr. Truax, it will be worth
your while to come here earlier than eight in
the morning. Better go to the hotel and tie
up to a good sleep. Good night.</q></p>

<p><q>Say, why did you take such a dislike to the
fellow?</q> queried Eph, as the three submarine
boys strolled on up the street, Truax following
slowly at some distance in the rear.</p>

<p><q>I didn't take a dislike to him,</q> Jack replied,
opening his eyes wide.</p>

<p><pb n="051" /><anchor id="Pg051" />
<q>You choked him off mighty short, then.</q></p>

<p><q>If it looked that way, then I'm sorry,</q> Benson
protested, in a tone of genuine regret. <q>All
I wanted to make plain was that I couldn't pass
him on to our precious old boat without Mr.
Farnum's order.</q></p>

<p>Truax plodded slowly along behind the submarine
boys, a cunning look in the man's eyes
as he stared after Jack Benson.</p>

<p><q>You're a slick young man, or else a wise
one,</q> muttered Truax. <q>But I think I'm smart
enough to take it out of you!</q></p>

<p>Nor did Sam Truax go to the hotel. He had
his own plans for this evening&mdash;plans that
boded the submarine boys no good.</p>

<p>The three boys strolled easily about town,
getting a hot soda or two, and, finally, drifting
into a moving picture show that had opened
recently in Dunhaven. This place they did not
leave until the show was over. They were half-way
home when Captain Jack remembered that
he had left behind him a book that he had
bought earlier in the evening.</p>

<p><q>You fellows keep right on down to the yard.
I'll hurry back, get the book and overtake
you,</q> he proposed.</p>

<p>Jack ran back, but already the little theatre
was closed.</p>

<p><q>I'm out that book, then, if we sail in the
<pb n="052" /><anchor id="Pg052" />
morning,</q> he muttered, as he trudged along
after his friends.</p>

<p>On the way toward the water front Benson
had to pass a vacant lot surrounded by a high
board fence on a deserted street. He had
passed about half way along the length of the
fence, when a head appeared over the top followed
by a pair of arms holding a small bag
of sand. Down dropped the bag, striking Jack
Benson on the top of the head, sending him unconscious
to the ground.</p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER IV: MR. FARNUM OFFERS ANOTHER GUESS</head>

<p>
Close at hand there was a loose board in
the fence. Through this Sam Truax
thrust his head, peering up and down
the street. Not another soul was in sight.</p>

<p>With a chuckle Truax stepped through the
hole in the fence. Swiftly he gathered up the
young submarine captain, bearing him through
the aperture and dropping him on the ground
behind the fence. At the same time he took
with him the small bag of sand.</p>

<p><q>Knocked you out, but I don't believe you'll
be unconscious long,</q> mused Truax, standing
over his young victim, regarding him critically.
<pb n="055" /><anchor id="Pg055" />
<q>There wasn't steam enough in the blow to
hurt you for long. You're sturdy, following
the sea all the time, as you do.</q></p>

<p>With a thoughtful air Sam Truax drew a
small bottle from his pocket, sprinkling some
of the contents over Jack's uniform coat. Immediately
the nauseating smell of liquor rose
on the air.</p>

<p><q>Now, if someone finds you before you come
to, you'll look like a fellow that has been drinking
and fighting,</q> muttered Truax under his
breath. <q>If you come to and get back to the
yard without help, you'll walk unsteadily and
have that smell about your clothes. Usually,
it needs only a breath of suspicion to turn folks
against a boy!</q></p>

<figure url="images/image02.jpg" rend="w50">
  <anchor id="image02" />
  <index index="fig" />
  <head rend="font-size: x-small">Down Dropped the Bag.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration: Down Dropped the Bag.</figDesc>
</figure>

<p>Pausing only long enough to learn that Jack's
pulses were beating, and that the submarine
boy was breathing, Truax stole off into the
night, carrying the bag of sand under his overcoat.
At one point he paused long enough to
empty the sand from the bag over a fence. The
bag itself he afterwards burned in the open fireplace
in the room assigned to him at Holt's
Hotel.</p>

<p>For twenty minutes Jack Benson lay as he
had been left. Then he began to stir, and groan.
Then he opened his eyes; after a while he managed
to sit up.</p>

<p><pb n="056" /><anchor id="Pg056" />
<q>Ugh!</q> he grunted. <q>What's the odor?
Liquor! How does that happen? Oh, my
head!</q></p>

<p>He got slowly to his feet, using the board
fence as a means to help steady himself. Then,
though he found himself weak and tormented
by the pain in his head, Benson managed to feel
his way along the fence until he came to the
opening made by the loose board. Holding
himself here, he thrust his head beyond.</p>

<p>Now, Hal and Eph, having waited for some
time at the shore boat, before going out on board
the <q>Farnum,</q> had at last made up their minds
to go back and look for their missing leader.
They came along just at the moment that the
young captain's head appeared through the
opening in the fence.</p>

<p><q>There he is,</q> muttered Hal, stopping short.
<q>Gracious! He acts queerly. I wonder if
anything can have happened to him? Come
along, Eph!</q></p>

<p>The two raced across the street.</p>

<p><q>Jack, old fellow! What on earth's the matter?</q>
demanded Hal Hastings, anxiously.</p>

<p><q>I wish you could tell me,</q> responded Jack
Benson, speaking rather thickly, for he was still
somewhat dazed. <q>Oh, my head!</q></p>

<p><q>There has been some queer work here,</q> muttered
Hal in Eph's ear. <q>Don't torment him
<pb n="057" /><anchor id="Pg057" />
with questions. Just help me to get him down
to the yard.</q></p>

<p>While the two submarine boys were guiding
their weak, dizzy comrade out to the sidewalk
a man came by with a swinging stride. Then
he stopped short, staring in amazement.</p>

<p><q>Hullo, boys! What on earth has happened?</q></p>

<p>It was Grant Andrews, foreman of the submarine
work at the yard, and a warm personal
friend of Benson's.</p>

<p><q>I don't believe the old chap feels like telling
us just now,</q> muttered Hal, with a sour
face.</p>

<p><q>Whiskey!</q> muttered Andrews, almost under
his breath. <q>What does it mean? Benson
never touched a drop of that vile stuff, did
he?</q></p>

<p><q>He'd sooner drown himself,</q> retorted Hal,
with spirit.</p>

<p><q>Of course he would,</q> agreed Grant Andrews.
<q>But what is the meaning of all this?</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, there's some queer, hocus-pocus business
on foot,</q> muttered Hal, bitterly. <q>But I
don't believe Jack feels much like telling us
anything about it at present.</q></p>

<p>In truth, Jack didn't seem inclined to conversation.
He was too sore and dazed to feel
like talking. He couldn't collect his ideas
<pb n="058" /><anchor id="Pg058" />
clearly. The most that he actually knew was
that the pain in his head was tormenting.</p>

<p><q>I'll pick him right up in my arms and carry
him,</q> proposed Andrews. <q>I'll take him to
Mr. Farnum's office. Then I'll get a doctor.
We don't want much noise about this, or folks
will be telling all sorts of yarns against Jack
Benson and his drinking habits, when the truth
is he's about the finest, steadiest young fellow
alive!</q></p>

<p>Just as Andrews was about to carry his purpose
into action, however, an automobile turned
the nearest corner and came swiftly toward
them. In another instant it stopped alongside.
It contained Mr. Farnum and his chauffeur, besides
three naval officers.</p>

<p><q>What's wrong, Andrews?</q> called the
yard's owner. <q>Why, that's Jack Benson!
What has happened to him?</q></p>

<p>Hal and Eph stood supporting their comrade,
almost holding him, in fact. Jacob Farnum
leaped from his automobile. Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew followed him.</p>

<p><q>Liquor, eh?</q> exclaimed the naval officer, the
odor reaching his nostrils.</p>

<p><q>No such thing,</q> retorted Farnum, turning
upon the officer. <q>At least, Jack Benson has
been drinking no such stuff.</q></p>

<p><q>It was only a guess,</q> murmured Mr. Mayhew,
<pb n="059" /><anchor id="Pg059" />
apologetically. <q>You know your young
man better than I do, Mr. Farnum.</q></p>

<p><q>There is liquor on his clothing,</q> continued
the shipbuilder. <q>It looks as though someone
had assaulted the lad, laid him out, and then
sprinkled him. It's a wasted trick, though. I
know him too well to be fooled by any such
clumsy bit of nonsense.</q></p>

<p><q>A stupid trick, indeed,</q> agreed Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew, but the naval officer did
not quite share the shipbuilder's confidence in
the submarine boy's innocence. Mr. Mayhew
had known of too many cases of naval apprentices
ruined through weak indulgence in liquor.
Indeed, he had even known of rare instances in
which cadets had been dismissed from the Naval
Academy for the same offense. The lieutenant
commander's present doubt of Jack Benson was
likely to work to that young man's disadvantage
later on.</p>

<p>Others of the party left the auto. Hal and
Mr. Farnum got into the tonneau, supporting
Jack there between them. Thus they carried
him to Mr. Farnum's office at the yard, Grant
Andrews then going in the car after a doctor,
while the others stretched Jack on the office sofa.
The naval officers returned to the <q>Hudson,</q> at
anchor in the little harbor below.</p>

<p><q>The young man acts as though he had been
<pb n="060" /><anchor id="Pg060" />
struck on the head,</q> was the physician's verdict.
<q>No bones of the skull are broken. The
odor of liquor is on his coat, but I can't seem to
detect any on the breath.</q></p>

<p><q>Of course you can't,</q> commented Jacob
Farnum, crisply. <q>Will Benson be fit to sail in
the morning?</q></p>

<p><q>I think so,</q> nodded the doctor. <q>But there
ought to be a nurse with him to-night.</q></p>

<p><q>Take my car, Andrews, and get a man nurse
at once,</q> directed Mr. Farnum. <q>Doctor, can
the young man be moved to his berth on the
'Farnum'?</q></p>

<p><q>Safely enough,</q> nodded the medical man.
They waited until the nurse arrived, when Jack
was put to bed on the newer submarine craft.</p>

<p>Jack slept through the night, moaning once
in a while. Mr. Farnum and the Dunhaven
doctor were aboard early to look at him. The
surgeon from the <q>Hudson</q> also came over.</p>

<p>Under the effects of medicine Jack Benson
was asleep when, at ten o'clock that morning, the
two submarine torpedo boats slipped their
moorings, following the <q>parent boat,</q> the
<q>Hudson,</q> out of the harbor.</p>

<p>Ten minutes later the motion of the sea awoke
the young skipper.</p>
</div>

<div>
<pb n="061" /><anchor id="Pg061" />
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER V: TRUAX SHOWS THE SULKS</head>

<p>
<q>Hullo!</q> muttered the young submarine
skipper, staring curiously
about the little stateroom aft. He
had it to himself, the nurse having been put on
shore. <q>Under way, eh? This is the queerest
start I ever made on a voyage.</q></p>

<p>Nor was it many moments later when Jack
Benson stood on his feet. His clothes were
hung neatly on nails against the wall. One after
another Jack secured the garments, slowly donning
them.</p>

<p><q>How my head throbs and buzzes!</q> he muttered,
his voice sounding unsteady. <q>Gracious!
What could have happened? Let me see. The
last I remember&mdash;passing that high fence&mdash;</q></p>

<p>But it was all too great a puzzle. Benson
finally decided to stop guessing until some
future time. He went on with his dressing.
Finally, with his blouse buttoned as exactly as
ever, and his cap placed gingerly on his aching
head, he opened the stateroom door, stepping
out into the cabin.</p>

<p>Accustomed as he was to sea motion, the slight
roll of the <q>Farnum</q> did not bother the young
<pb n="062" /><anchor id="Pg062" />
skipper much. He soon reached the bottom of
the short spiral stairway leading up into the conning
tower. Up there, in the helmsman's seat,
he espied Hal Hastings with his hands employed
at the steering apparatus. Hal was looking out
over the water, straight ahead.</p>

<p><q>Sailing these days without word from your
captain, eh?</q> Jack called, in a voice that carried,
though it shook.</p>

<p><q>Gracious&mdash;you?</q> ejaculated Hal, looking
down for an instant. Then Hastings pressed a
button connecting with a bell in the engine room.</p>

<p><q>I'm going up there with you,</q> Jack volunteered.</p>

<p><q>Right-o, if you insist,</q> clicked Eph Somers,
appearing from the engine room and darting to
the young skipper's side. True, Jack's head
swam a bit dizzily as he climbed the stairs, but
Eph's strong support made the task much
easier. There was space to spare on the seat
beside Hal, and into this Jack Benson sank.</p>

<p><q>Say, you ought to sleep until afternoon,</q>
was Hastings's next greeting, but Jack was
looking out of the conning tower at the scene
around him.</p>

<p>The three craft were leaving the coast directly
behind. About three hundred yards away,
abeam, steamed the <q>Hudson</q> at a nine-knot
gait.</p>

<p><pb n="063" /><anchor id="Pg063" />
<q>The 'Pollard' is on the other side of the gunboat,
isn't she?</q> asked Jack.</p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> Hal nodded.</p>

<p><q>Naval crew aboard her?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes; Government has taken full possession
of the 'Pollard.'</q></p>

<p><q>Who's running this boat? Just you and
Eph?</q></p>

<p><q>No; that new man, Truax, is on board, and
at the last moment Mr. Farnum put Williamson,
one of the machinists, aboard, also. You can
send Williamson back from Annapolis whenever
you're through with him.</q></p>

<p><q>Williamson is all right,</q> nodded Jack,
slowly. <q>But how about Truax?</q></p>

<p><q>I think he's going to be a useful man,</q> Hal
responded. <q>He seems familiar with our type
of engines. Of course, he knows nothing about
the apparatus for submerging the boat or making
it dive. But he doesn't need to. Now,
Jack, old fellow, we're going along all right.
Why not let Eph help you back to your bunk, or
one of the seats in the cabin, and have your sleep
out?</q></p>

<p><q>I've had it out,</q> Benson declared, with a
laugh. <q>I'm ready, now, to take my trick at the
wheel.</q></p>

<p><q>Nonsense,</q> retorted Hal Hastings. <q>I've
been here a bare quarter of an hour, and I'm
<pb n="064" /><anchor id="Pg064" />
good for more work than that. Jack, you're
nothing but a fifth wheel. You're not needed;
won't be all day, and at night we anchor in some
harbor down the coast. Go and rest, like a good
fellow.</q></p>

<p><q>Can't rest, when I know I'm doing nothing,</q>
Benson retorted, stubbornly. <q>Besides, this is
the first time I've ever found myself moving
along in regular formation with the United
States Navy. I feel almost as if I were a Navy
officer myself, and I mean to make the most of
the sensation. Say, Hal, wouldn't it be fine if
we really <hi rend="font-style: italic">did</hi> belong to the Navy?</q></p>

<p><q>Gee-whiz!</q> murmured young Hastings, his
cheeks glowing and his eyes snapping.</p>

<p><q>If we only belonged to the old Flag for life,
and knew that we were practising on a boat like
this as a part of the preparation for real war
when it came?</q></p>

<p><q><hi rend="font-style: italic">Don't!</hi></q> begged Hal, tensely. <q>For you
know, old fellow, it can't come true. Why, we
haven't even a residence anywhere, from which
a Congressman could appoint one of us to
Annapolis!</q></p>

<p><q><hi rend="font-style: italic">One</hi> of us?</q> muttered Jack, scornfully.
<q>Then it would have to be you. <hi rend="font-style: italic">I</hi> wouldn't go,
even as a cadet at Annapolis, and leave you behind
in just plain, ordinary life, Hal Hastings!</q></p>

<p><q>Well, it's no use thinking about it,</q> sighed
<pb n="065" /><anchor id="Pg065" />
Hal, practically. <q>Neither one of us is in any
danger of getting appointed to Annapolis, so
there's no chance that either one of us ever will
become an officer in the Navy. Let's not talk
about it, Jack. I've been contented enough, so
far, but now it makes me almost blue, to think
that we can only go on testing and handling submarine
craft like these, while others will be their
real officers in the Navy, and command them in
any war that may come.</q></p>

<p>Though his head throbbed, and though a dizzy
spell came over him every few minutes, Jack
Benson stuck it out, up there beside his chum,
for an hour. Then, disdaining aid, he crept
down the stairs, stretching himself out on one of
the cabin seats. Eph brought him a pillow and
a blanket. Jack soon slept, tossing uneasily
whenever pain throbbed dully in his head.</p>

<p><q>Guess I'll go out and have a little look at the
young captain,</q> proposed Sam Truax, an hour
later.</p>

<p><q>Try another guess,</q> retorted Eph, curtly.
<q>You'll stay here in the engine room. Jack
Benson isn't going to be bothered in any way.</q></p>

<p><q>I'm not going to bother him; just going to
take a look at him,</q> protested Truax, moving
toward the door that separated the engine room
from the cabin.</p>

<p>But young Somers caught the stranger by the
<pb n="066" /><anchor id="Pg066" />
sleeve of the oily jumper that Sam had donned
on beginning his work.</p>

<p><q>Do you know what folks say about me?</q> demanded
Eph, with a significant glare.</p>

<p><q>What do they say?</q></p>

<p><q>Folks have an idea that, at most times, I'm
one of the best-natured fellows on earth,</q> declared
Eph, solemnly. <q>Yet they <hi rend="font-style: italic">do</hi> say that,
when I'm crossed in anything my mind's made
up to, I can be tarnation ugly. I just told you
I don't want the captain disturbed. Do you
know, Sam Truax, I feel a queer notion coming
over me? I've an idea that that feeling is just
plain ugliness coming to life!</q></p>

<p>Truax came back from the door, a grin on his
face. Yet, when he turned his head away, there
was a queer, almost deadly flash in the fellow's
eyes.</p>

<p>Jack slept, uneasily, until towards the middle
of the afternoon. As soon as Eph found him
awake, that young man brought the captain a
plate of toast and a bowl of broth, both prepared
at the little galley stove.</p>

<p><q>Sit up and get away with these,</q> urged Eph,
placing the tray on the cabin table. <q>Wait a
minute. I'll prop you up and put a pillow at
your back.</q></p>

<p><q>This boat isn't a bad place for a fellow
when he's knocked out,</q> smiled Jack.</p>

<p><pb n="067" /><anchor id="Pg067" />
<q>Any place ought to be good, where your
friends are,</q> came, curtly, from young Somers.</p>

<p>As Captain Jack ate the warm food he felt his
strength coming back to him.</p>

<p><q>Poor old Hal has been up there in the conning
tower all these hours,</q> muttered Captain
Jack, uneasily. <q>He must have that cramped
feeling in his hands.</q></p>

<p><q>Humph!</q> retorted Eph. <q>Not so you could
notice it much, I guess. It's a simpleton's job
up in the conning tower to-day. All he has to
do is to shift the wheel a little to port, or to starboard,
just so as to keep the proper interval
from the 'Dad' boat. Besides, I've been up
there on relief, for an hour while you slept, and
Hal came down and sat with the engines. Cheer
up, Jack. No one misses you from the conning
tower.</q></p>

<p>Benson laughed, though he said, warningly:</p>

<p><q>I reckon we'll do as well to drop calling the
gunboat the 'Dad boat' instead of the 'parent
vessel.'</q></p>

<p><q>Well, you needn't bother at all about the
conning tower to-day,</q> wound up Eph, glancing
at his watch. <q>It's after half-past three at this
moment and I understand we're to drop anchor
about five o'clock.</q></p>

<p>So Skipper Jack settled back with a comfortable
sigh. Truth to tell, it was pleasant not to
<pb n="068" /><anchor id="Pg068" />
have any immediate duty, for his head throbbed,
every now and then, and he felt dizzy when he
tried to walk.</p>

<p><q>Who could have hit me in that fashion, last
night, and for what earthly purpose?</q> wondered
the boy. <q>I've had some enemies, in the
past, but I don't know a single person about
Dunhaven, now who has any reason for wishing
me harm.</q></p>

<p>Never a thought crossed his mind of suspecting
Sam Truax. That worthy had come with a
note from David Pollard, the inventor of the
boats. Sam, therefore, must be all right, the
boy reasoned.</p>

<p>Jack lay back on the upholstered seat. He
sat with his eyes closed most of the time, though
he did not doze. At last, however, he heard the
engine room bell sound for reduced speed. Getting
up, the young captain made his way to the
foot of the conning tower stairs.</p>

<p><q>Making port, Hal?</q> he called.</p>

<p><q>Yep,</q> came the reply. <q>We'll be at anchor
in five minutes more.</q></p>

<p>Jack made his way slowly to the door of the
engine room.</p>

<p><q>Eph,</q> he called, <q>as soon as you've shut
off speed, take Truax above and you two attend
to the mooring.</q></p>

<p><q>Take this other man up with you,</q> urged
<pb n="069" /><anchor id="Pg069" />
Sam Truax. <q>I don't know anything about tying
a boat up to moorings.</q></p>

<p><q>Time you learned, then,</q> returned Eph
Somers, <q>if you're to stay aboard a submarine
craft.</q></p>

<p><q>Take this other man up with you,</q> again
urged Truax.</p>

<p>Eph Somers turned around to face him with
a good deal of a glare.</p>

<p><q>What ails you, Truax? You heard the captain's
order. You'll go with me.</q></p>

<p><q>Don't be too sure of that,</q> uttered Sam
Truax, defiantly.</p>

<p><q>If you don't go above with me, and if you
don't follow every order you get aboard this
boat, I know where you <hi rend="font-style: italic">will</hi> go,</q> muttered
Eph, decisively.</p>

<p><q>Where?</q> jeered Sam.</p>

<p><q>Ashore&mdash;in the first boat that can take you
there.</q></p>

<p><q>You seem to forget that I'm on board by
David Pollard's order,</q> sneered Truax.</p>

<p><q>All I am sure of,</q> retorted Eph, <q>is that
Jack Benson is captain on board this craft.
That means that he's sole judge of everything
here when this boat is cruising. If you were
here by the orders of both owners, Jack Benson
would fire you ashore for good, just the
same, after you've balked at the first order.</q></p>

<p><pb n="070" /><anchor id="Pg070" />
<q>Humph! I&mdash;</q></p>

<p>Clang! Jangle! The signal bell was sounding.</p>

<p><q>Shut up,</q> ordered Eph Somers, briskly.
<q>I've got the engine to run on signal from the
watch officer.</q></p>

<p>There followed a series of signals, first of all
for stopping speed, then for a brief reversing of
engines. A moment later headway speed ahead
was ordered. So on Eph went through the
series of orders until the <q>Farnum</q> had been
man&oelig;uvred to her exact position. Then, from
above, Captain Jack's voice was heard, roaring
in almost his usual tones:</p>

<p><q>Turn out below, there, to help make fast!</q></p>

<p><q>Take the lever, Williamson,</q> directed Eph.
<q>Come along lively, Truax.</q></p>

<p><q>Humph! Let Williamson go,</q> grumbled
Truax.</p>

<p><q>You come along with me, my man!</q> roared
Eph, his face blazing angrily. <q>Hustle, too, or
I'll report you to the captain for disobedience of
orders. Then you'll go ashore at express speed.
Coming?</q></p>

<p>Sam Truax appeared to wage a very brief
battle within himself. Then, nodding sulkily,
he followed.</p>

<p><q>Hustle up, there!</q> Jack shouted down.
<q>We don't want to drift.</q></p>

<p><pb n="071" /><anchor id="Pg071" />
Jack Benson stood out on the platform deck,
holding to the conning tower at the port side.
A naval launch had just placed a buoy over an
anchor that had been lowered.</p>

<p><q>Get forward, you two,</q> Jack called briskly,
<q>and make the bow cable fast to that buoy.</q></p>

<p>Hal still sat at the wheel in the tower. As
Eph and Truax crept forward over the arched
upper hull of the <q>Farnum,</q> Hal sounded the
engine room signals and steered until the boat
had gotten close enough to make the bow cable
fast. Then the stern cable was made fast, with
more line, to another buoy.</p>

<p><q>A neat hitch, Mr. Benson,</q> came a voice
from the bridge of the <q>Hudson,</q> which lay a
short distance away. Jack, looking up, saw
Lieutenant Commander Mayhew leaning over
the bridge rail.</p>

<p><q>Thank you, sir,</q> Jack acknowledged, saluting
the naval officer.</p>

<p>The parent vessel and her two submarine
charges now lay at anchor in the harbor at Port
Clovis, one of the towns down the coast from
Dunhaven. This mooring overnight was to be
repeated each day until Annapolis should be
reached.</p>

<p>Within fifteen minutes the craft were surrounded
by small boats from shore. Some of
these contained merchandise that it was hoped
<pb n="072" /><anchor id="Pg072" />
sailors would buy. Other boats <q>ran</q> for
hotels, restaurants, drinking places, amusement
halls, and all the varied places on shore that
hope to fatten on Jack Tar's money.</p>

<p><q>I'd like to go ashore, sir,</q> announced Sam
Truax, approaching Captain Jack.</p>

<p><q>When?</q></p>

<p><q>Now.</q></p>

<p><q>For how long?</q></p>

<p><q>Until ten o'clock to-night.</q></p>

<p><q>Be back by that hour, then,</q> Jack replied.
<q>If you're not, you'll find everything shut tight
aboard here.</q></p>

<p>Truax quickly signaled one of the hovering
boats, and put off in it. Eph watched the boat
for a few moments before he turned to Captain
Jack to mutter:</p>

<p><q>Somehow, I wouldn't feel very badly about
it if that fellow got lost on shore!</q></p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER VI: TWO KINDS OF VOODOO</head>

<p>
On the second day of the cruise Jack
Benson returned to full duty.</p>

<p>For four nights, in all, the submarine
squadron tied up at moorings in harbors
along the coast. On the fifth night, as
<pb n="073" /><anchor id="Pg073" />
darkness fell, the squadron continued under
way, in Chesapeake Bay, for Annapolis was but
three hours away.</p>

<p>Immediately after supper Captain Jack took
his place in the conning tower. He concerned
himself principally with the compass, his only
other task being to keep the course by the <q>Hudson's</q>
lights, for the parent boat supplied in
its own conduct all the navigation orders beyond
the general course. The <q>Farnum's</q> searchlight
was not used, the gunboat picking up all
the coast-marks as they neared land.</p>

<p><q>Annapolis is the place I've always wanted to
see,</q> Jack declared, as Hal joined him in the
conning tower.</p>

<p><q>It's the place where I've always wanted to
be a cadet,</q> sighed Hal. <q>But there's no
chance for me, I fear. Jack, I'd rather be an
officer of the Navy than a millionaire.</q></p>

<p><q>Same here,</q> replied Jack, steadily. <q>It's
hard to have to feel that I'll never be either.</q></p>

<p>As she entered the mouth of the Severn River
the <q>Hudson</q> signaled to the submarines to
follow, in file, the <q>Pollard</q> leading. A little
later the three craft entered the Basin at the
Academy. While the gunboat anchored off the
Amphitheatre, the two submarine boats were
ordered to anchorage just off the Boat House.
Then a cutter came alongside.</p>

<p><pb n="074" /><anchor id="Pg074" />
<q>The lieutenant commander's compliments
to Mr. Benson. Will Mr. Benson go aboard the
'Hudson'?</q> asked the young officer in command
of the cutter. Captain Jack lost no time
in presenting himself before the lieutenant
commander.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson,</q> said Mr. Mayhew, after greeting
the submarine boy, <q>your craft will be under
a marine guard to-night, and at all times while
here at the Naval Academy. If you and your
crew would like to spend the night ashore, in
the quaint little old town of Annapolis, there's
no reason why you shouldn't. But you will all
need to report back aboard, ready for duty, by
eight in the morning.</q></p>

<p>Jack thanked the naval commander, then hastened
back to the <q>Farnum</q> to communicate
the news.</p>

<p><q>Me for the shore trip,</q> declared Eph,
promptly. All the others agreed with him.</p>

<p><q>I'll come back by ten o'clock to-night,
though,</q> volunteered Sam Truax. <q>One of the
crew ought to be aboard.</q></p>

<p><q>We'll stay ashore,</q> decided Jack, <q>and return
in the morning.</q></p>

<p><q>I'm coming back to-night,</q> retorted Truax.</p>

<p><q>Keep still, and follow orders,</q> muttered
Eph, digging his elbow into Truax's ribs. <q>The
captain gives the orders here.</q></p>

<p><pb n="075" /><anchor id="Pg075" />
Jack, however, had turned away. Within
five minutes a boat put off from shore, bringing
two soldiers of the marine guard alongside.
With them, in the shore boat, was a corporal of
the guard.</p>

<p><q>Any of your crew coming back to-night,
sir?</q> asked the corporal.</p>

<p><q>None,</q> Benson answered. <q>Will you instruct
the sentries to see that none of the crew
are allowed aboard during the night?</q></p>

<p><q>Very good, sir.</q></p>

<p>The shore boat waited to convey them to the
landing. Before going, young Captain Benson
closed and locked the manhole entrance to the
conning tower. A sullen silence had fallen over
Truax. The instructions to the corporal of the
guard, and the prompt acceptance of those instructions,
told Sam, beyond any doubt, that he
was <hi rend="font-style: italic">not</hi> coming back on board that night.</p>

<p>Truax followed the others as they passed
through the Academy grounds. Beyond the
large, handsome buildings, there was not much
to be seen at night. Lights shone behind all the
windows in Cadet Barracks. Nearly all of the
cadets of the United States Navy were in their
quarters, hard at study. Here and there a
marine sentry paced. A few naval officers, in
uniform, passed along the walks. That was all,
and the submarine party had crossed the
<pb n="076" /><anchor id="Pg076" />
grounds to the gate through which they were to
pass into the town of Annapolis.</p>

<p><q>Coming with us, Truax?</q> asked Williamson,
as the party passed out into a dimly lighted
street.</p>

<p><q>No,</q> replied the fellow, sullenly. <q>I'll
travel by myself.</q></p>

<p><q>You're welcome to,</q> muttered Eph, under
his breath.</p>

<p>The others climbed the steps to the State Capitol
grounds, continuing until they reached one
of the principal streets of the little town.</p>

<p><q>Say, but this place must have gone to sleep
before we got ashore,</q> grumbled Eph.
<q>Hanged if I don't think Dunhaven is a livelier
little place!</q></p>

<p><q>There isn't much to do, except to wander
about a bit, then go to the Maryland House for a
good sleep on shore,</q> Jack admitted.</p>

<p>For more than an hour the submarine boys
wandered about. The principal streets contained
some stores that had a bright, up-to-date
look, and in these principal streets the evening
crowds much resembled those to be found in any
small town. There were other streets, however,
on which there was little traffic. In some of these
quieter streets were quaint, old-fashioned houses
built in the Colonial days.</p>

<p><q>Annapolis is more of a place to see by daylight,
<pb n="077" /><anchor id="Pg077" />
I reckon,</q> suggested Hal. <q>How about
that sleep, Jack?</q></p>

<p><q>The greatest fun, by night, I guess, consists
in finding a drug-store and spending some of our
loose change on ice cream sodas,</q> laughed the
young submarine skipper.</p>

<p>This done, they found their way to the Maryland
House. Jack and Hal engaged a room together,
Eph and Williamson taking the adjoining
one.</p>

<p><q>As for me, in an exciting place like this,</q>
grimaced Eph, <q>I'm off for bed.</q></p>

<p>Williamson followed him upstairs. For some
minutes Hal sat with his chum in the hotel office.
Then Jack went over and talked with the night
clerk for a few moments.</p>

<p><q>There's a place near here, Hal, where a fellow
can get an oyster fry,</q> Benson explained,
returning to his chum. <q>With that information
came the discovery that I have an appetite.
Come and join me?</q></p>

<p><q>No,</q> gaped Hal. <q>I reckon I'll go up and
turn in.</q></p>

<p><q>I'll be along in half an hour, then.</q></p>

<p>Jack found the oyster house readily. As he
entered the little, not over-clean place, he found
himself the only customer. He gave his order,
then picked up the local daily paper. As he ate,
Jack found himself yawning. The drowsiness
<pb n="078" /><anchor id="Pg078" />
of Annapolis by night was coming upon him.
Little did he dream how soon he was to discover
that Annapolis, in some of its parts, can be
lively enough.</p>

<p>As he paid his bill and stepped to the street, a
young mulatto hurried up to him.</p>

<p><q>Am Ah correct, sah, in supposin' yo' Cap'n
Jack Benson?</q></p>

<p><q>That's my name,</q> Jack admitted.</p>

<p><q>Den Ah's jes' been 'roun' to de hotel, lookin'
fo' yo', sah. One ob yo' men, Mistah Sam
Truax, am done took sick, an' he done sent me
fo' yo'.</q></p>

<p><q>Truax ill? Why, I saw him a couple of
hours ago, and he looked as healthy as a man
could look,</q> Jack replied, in astonishment.</p>

<p><q>I reckon, sah, he's mighty po'ly now, sah,</q>
replied the mulatto. <q>He done gib me money
fo' to hiah a cab an' take yo' to him. Will yo'
please to come, sah?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> agreed Jack. <q>Lead the way.</q></p>

<p><q>T'ank yo', sah; t'ank yo', sah. Follow me,
sah.</q></p>

<p>Jack's mulatto guide led him down the street
a little way, then around a corner. Here a
rickety old cab with a single horse attached,
waited. A gray old darkey sat on the driver's
seat.</p>

<p><q>Step right inside, sah. We'll be dere
<pb n="079" /><anchor id="Pg079" />
direckly. Marse Truax'll be powahful glad to
see yo', sah.</q></p>

<p><q>See here,</q> demanded Jack, after they had
driven several blocks at a good speed, <q>Truax
hasn't been getting into any drinking scrapes,
has he? Hasn't been getting himself arrested,
has he?</q></p>

<p>For young Benson had learned, from the night
clerk at the hotel, that, quiet and <q>dead</q> as
Annapolis appears to the stranger, there are
<q>tough</q> places into which a seafaring stranger
may find his way.</p>

<p><q>No, sah; no, sah,</q> protested the mulatto.
<q>Marse Truax done got sick right and proper.</q></p>

<p><q>Why, confound it, we're leaving the town
behind,</q> cried Jack, a few moments later, after
peering out through the cab window.</p>

<p><q>Dat's all right, sah. Dere ain' nuffin' to be
'fraid ob, sah.</q></p>

<p><q>Afraid?</q> uttered Jack, scornfully, with a
side glance at the mulatto. The submarine boy
felt confident that, in a stretch of trouble, he
could thrash this guide of his in very short
order.</p>

<p><q>Ah might jess well tell yo' wheah we am
gwine, sah,</q> volunteered the mulatto, presently.</p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> Benson retorted, drily. <q>I think you
may.</q></p>

<p><q>Marse Truax, sah, he done hab er powah ob
<pb n="080" /><anchor id="Pg080" />
trouble, sah, las' wintah, wid rheumatiz, sah.
He 'fraid he gwine cotch it again dis wintah,
sah. Now, sah, dere am some good voodoo
doctahs 'roun' Annapolis, so Marse Truax, he
done gwine to see, sah, what er voodoo can
promise him fo' his rheumatiz. I'se a runnah,
sah, for de smahtest ole voodoo doctah, sah, in
de whole state ob Maryland.</q></p>

<p><q>Then you took Truax to a voodoo doctor to-night?</q>
demanded Jack, almost contemptuously.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sah; yes, sah.</q></p>

<p><q>I thought Truax had more sense than to go
in for such tomfoolery,</q> Jack Benson retorted,
bluntly.</p>

<p>The mulatto launched into a prompt, energetic
defense of the voodoo doctors. Young
Benson had heard a good deal about these clever
old colored frauds. In spite of his contempt,
the submarine boy found himself interested.
He had heard about the charms, spells, incantations
and other humbugs practised on colored
dupes and on some credulous whites by these
greatest of all quacks. The voodoo methods of
<q>healing</q> are brought out of the deepest jungles
of darkest Africa, yet there are many
ignorant people, even among the whites, who
believe steadfastly in the <q>cures</q> wrought by
the voodoo.</p>

<p><pb n="081" /><anchor id="Pg081" />
While the mulatto guide was talking, or answering
Jack's half-amused questions, the cab
left Annapolis further and further behind.</p>

<p><q>Yo' see, sah,</q> the guide went on, <q>Marse
Truax wa'n't in no fit condition, sah, to try de
strongest voodoo medicine dat he called fo'. So,
w'ile de voodoo was sayin' his strongest chahms,
Marse Truax done fall down, frothin' at de
mouth. He am some bettah, now, sah, but he
kain't be move' from de voodoo's house 'cept
by a frien'.</q></p>

<p><q>I'll get a chance to see one of these old voodoo
frauds, anyway,</q> Jack told himself. <q>This
new experience will be worth the time it keeps
me out of my bed. What a pity Hal missed a
queer old treat like this!</q></p>

<p>When the cab at last stopped, Benson looked
out to find that the place was well down a lonely
country road, well lined with trees on either
side. The house, utterly dark from the outside,
was a ramshackle, roomy old affair.</p>

<p><q>Shall Ah wait fo' yo'?</q> asked the old colored
driver.</p>

<p><q>Yes, wait for me,</q> directed Jack, briefly.</p>

<p><q>Yeah; wait fo' de gemmun. He's all right,</q>
volunteered the mulatto.</p>

<p><q>Mebbe yo' kin see some voodoo wo'k, too, ef
yo's int'rested,</q> hinted the guide, in a whisper,
as he fitted a key to a lock, and swung a door
<pb n="082" /><anchor id="Pg082" />
open. In a hallway stood a lighted lantern,
which the guide picked up.</p>

<p><q>Now, go quiet-lak, on tip-toe. Sh!</q> cautioned
the guide, himself moving stealthily into
the nearest room. Jack Benson began to feel
secretly awestruck and <q>creepy,</q> though he
was too full of grit to betray the fact.</p>

<p>At the further end of the room the guide,
holding the lantern behind his body as though by
accident, threw open another door.</p>

<p><q>Pass right on through dis room, ahead ob
me, sah,</q> begged the guide, respectfully.</p>

<p>But Jack drew back, instinctively, out of the
darkness.</p>

<p><q>Don' yo', a w'ite man, be 'fraid ob ole voodoo
house,</q> advised the mulatto, still speaking
respectfully.</p>

<p>Afraid? Of course not. Relying on his muscle
and his agility, Jack stepped ahead. By a
sudden jerk of his arm the mulatto guide shook
out the flame in the lantern.</p>

<p><q>Here, you! What are you about?</q> growled
Jack Benson, wheeling like a flash upon his
escort.</p>

<p><q>Go 'long, yo' w'ite trash!</q> jeered the
mulatto. He gave the boy a sudden, forceful
shove.</p>

<p>Jack Benson, under the impetus of that push,
staggered ahead, seeking to recover his balance.
<pb n="083" /><anchor id="Pg083" />
Without a doubt he would have done so, but,
just then, the floor under his feet ended. With
a yell of dismay, the submarine boy tottered,
then plunged down, alighting on a bed of soft
dirt many feet below.</p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER VII: JACK FINDS SOMETHING <q>NEW,</q> ALL RIGHT</head>

<p>
Jack Benson was on his feet in an instant.
An angrier boy it would have
been hard to find.</p>

<p>From overhead came the sound of a loud
guffaw.</p>

<p><q>Oh, you infernal scoundrel!</q> raged the submarine
boy, shaking his fist in the dark.</p>

<p><q>W'at am de matter wid yo', w'ite trash?</q>
came the jeering query.</p>

<p><q>Let me get my hands on you, and I'll show
you!</q> quivered Benson.</p>

<p><q>Yah! Listen to yo'! Yo' wait er minute,
an' Ah'll show yo' a light.</q></p>

<p>Gr-r-r-r! Gr-r-r-r! That sound from overhead
was not pleasant. Jack, in the few
seconds that were left to him, could only guess
as to the cause of the sounds. Then, some fifteen
feet over his head, a tiny flame sputtered.
This match-end was carried to the wick of the
<pb n="084" /><anchor id="Pg084" />
lantern that the yellowish guide had been carrying,
and now the light illumined the place into
which Jack Benson had fallen.</p>

<p>That place was a square-shaped pit, with
boarded sides. Up above, on a shelf of flooring,
knelt the late guide, grinning down with a
look of infernal glee. On either side of the
mulatto stood a heavy-jowled bull-dog. Both
brutes peered down, showing their teeth in a
way to make a timid man's blood run cold.</p>

<p><q>Put those dogs back and come down here,</q>
challenged Jack, shaking his fist. <q>Come down,
and I'll teach you a few things, you rascal!</q></p>

<p><q>Don' yo' shake yo' fist at me, or dem dawgs
will sure jump down and tackle yo',</q> grinned
the guide, gripping at the collars of the brutes,
which, truly, showed signs of intending to spring
below.</p>

<p>Jack fell back, his hands dropping to his sides.
Had there been but one dog, the submarine boy,
with all his grit forced to the surface, might
have chosen to face the brute, hoping to despatch
it with a well-aimed kick. But with two dogs,
both intent on <q>getting</q> him, young Benson
knew that he would stand the fabled chance of
a snow-flake on a red-hot stove.</p>

<p><q>Dat's right, gemmun, yo' keep cool,</q> observed
the mulatto, mockingly.</p>

<p><q>You've decoyed me&mdash;trapped me here with
<pb n="085" /><anchor id="Pg085" />
a mess of lies,</q> flung back Captain Jack,
angrily. <q>What's your game?</q></p>

<p><q>Dis am a free lodgin' house&mdash;ho, ho, ho!</q>
chuckled the late guide. <q>Ah's gwine gib yo'
er place to sleep fo' de night. Yo' sho'ly must
feel 'bleeged to me&mdash;ho, ho, ho!</q></p>

<p><q>You lied to me about Sam Truax!</q></p>

<p><q>Yeah! Ah done foun' dat was de name ob a
gemmun in yo' pahty dat wasn't wid yo'.
Truax do as well as any odder name&mdash;yah!
Now, Ah's gwine leab yo' heah t' git a sleep.
Ah'll toss down some blankets. 'Pose yo'se'f
and gwine ter sleep, honey. Don't try to clim'
up outer dat, or dem dawgs'll sho'ly jump down
at yo'. Keep quiet, an' go ter sleep, an' de
dawgs done lay heah an' jest watch. But don'
try nuffin' funny, or de dawgs'll sho'ly bring
trubble to yo'. Dem is trained dawgs&mdash;train'
fo' dis business ob mine. Ho, ho, ho!</q></p>

<p>Mulatto and light vanished, but enraged,
baffled, helpless Captain Jack could hear the
two dogs moving about ere they settled down on
the shelf of flooring overhead.</p>

<p><q>No matter how much of a liar that rascal is,
he didn't lie to me about the dogs,</q> reflected
Jack, his temper cooling, but his bitterness increasing.
<q>They're fighting dogs, and one
wrong move would bring them bounding down
here on me&mdash;the two together. Ugh-gh!</q></p>

<p><pb n="086" /><anchor id="Pg086" />
After a few moments the mulatto reappeared
with a light and tossed down three heavy
blankets.</p>

<p><q>Now, Ah's gwine leave yo' fo' de night,</q>
clacked the late guide. <q>Ef yo' done feel lonesome,
yo' jes' whistle de dawgs down to yo'.
Dey'll come!</q></p>

<p>While the light was still there Benson, in raging
silence, gathered the blankets and arranged
them.</p>

<p><q>Roll up one fo' a pillow, under yo' haid,</q>
grinned the mulatto. <q>Dat's all right, sah.
Now, good night, Marse Benson. Ef yo' feel
lonesome, Marse Benson, jes' whistle fo' de
dawgs. <hi rend="font-style: italic">Dey'll come!</hi></q></p>

<p>The light vanished while the mulatto's sinister
words were ringing in the boy's ears. Would
the dogs jump down? Jack knew they would,
at the first false move or sound on his part. He
huddled softly, stealthily, on the blankets, there
in the darkness.</p>

<p>As he lay there, thinking, Benson's sense of
admiration gradually got to the surface.</p>

<p><q>Well, of all the slick man-traps!</q> he gasped.
<q>I never heard of anything more clever. Nor
was there ever a bigger idiot than I, to walk
stupidly into this same trap! What's the game,
I wonder? Robbery, it must be. And I have a
watch, some other little valuables and nearly a
<pb n="087" /><anchor id="Pg087" />
hundred and fifty dollars in money on me. Oh,
I'm the sleek, fat goose for plucking!</q></p>

<p>Lying there, in enforced stillness, Jack Benson,
after an hour or so, actually fell asleep. A
good, healthy sleeper at all times, he slumbered
on through the night. Once he awoke, just a
trifle chilled. He heard one of the dogs snoring
overhead. Crawling under one of the blankets,
Benson went to sleep again.</p>

<p><q>Hey, yo', Marse Benson. It am mawnin'.
Time yo' was wakin' up an' movin' erlong!</q></p>

<p>It was the voice of the same mulatto, calling
down into the pit. Again the rays of the lantern
illumined the darkness. Both bull-dogs
displayed their ferocious muzzles over the edge
of the pit. Jack sat up cautiously, not caring to
attract unfriendly interest from the dogs.</p>

<p><q>Ah want yo' to take off all yo' clothes 'cept
yo' undahclothes, an' den Ah'll let down a string
fo' yo' to tie 'em to,</q> declared the mulatto,
grinning. <q>Yo' needn't try ter slip yo' wallet,
nor nuffin' outer mah sight, cause Ah'll be
watchin'. Now, git a hurry on, Marse Benson,
or Ah'll done push dem dawgs ober de aidge
ob dis flooring.</q></p>

<p>Jack hesitated only a moment. Then, with a
grunt of rage, he began removing his outer garments.
Down came a twine, to the lower end of
which the boy made fast his garments, one after
<pb n="088" /><anchor id="Pg088" />
another. His money and valuables went up in
the pockets, for the sharp eyes of the mulatto
could not have been eluded by any amateur
slight-of-hand.</p>

<p><q>Now, yo' cap an' yo' shoes,</q> directed the
grinning monster above.</p>

<p>These, too, Benson passed up at the end of the
cord. The mulatto disappeared, leaving the
two dogs still on guard. At last, back came the
light and the yellowish man with it.</p>

<p><q>Yo' sho' is good picking, Marse Benson,</q>
grinned the guide of the night before. <q>Yo'
has good pin feathers. Ah hope Ah'll suttinly
meet yo' again.</q></p>

<p><q>I hope we do meet at another time!</q> Jack
Benson flared back, wrathily. The cool insolence
of the fellow cut him to the marrow, yet
where was the use of disobeying a rascal flanked
by two such willing and capable dogs?</p>

<p><q>Now, yo' jes' put dese t'ings on, Marse Benson,
ef yo' please, sah,</q> mocked the mulatto,
tossing down some woefully tattered, nondescript
garments, and, after them, a battered,
rimless Derby hat and a pair of brogans out at
the toes.</p>

<p><q>I'll be hanged if I'll put on such duds!</q>
quivered Jack.</p>

<p><q>Jes' as yo' please, ob co'se, Marse Benson,</q>
came the answer, from above. <q>But, ef yo'
<pb n="089" /><anchor id="Pg089" />
don' put dem t'ings on, yo'll sho'ly hab ter
gwine back ter 'Napolis in yo' undahclo's.
An' yo's gwine back right away, too, so, ef yo'
wants ter gwine back weahin' ernuff clo'es&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, well, then&mdash;!</q> ground out the submarine
boy, savagely enough.</p>

<p>He attired himself in these tattered ends of
raiment. Had he not been so angry he must
have roared at sight of his comical self when the
dressing was completed.</p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER VIII: A YOUNG CAPTAIN IN TATTERS</head>

<p>
<q>Now, yo'll do, Ah reckons.</q></p>

<p>With that, the mulatto guide of the
night before threw down one end of
an inch rope.</p>

<p><q>Ah reckon yo's sailor ernuff to clim' dat.
Come right erlong, 'less yo' wants de dawgs ter
jump down dar.</q></p>

<p><q>But they'll tackle me if I come up,</q> objected
Jack Benson.</p>

<p><q>No, dey won't. Dem dawgs is train' to dis
wo'k. Ah done tole yo' dat. Come right
erlong. Ah'll keep my two eyes on dem
dawgs.</q></p>

<p>It looked like a highly risky bit of business,
<pb n="090" /><anchor id="Pg090" />
but Jack told himself that, now he had been deprived
of his valuables, this yellow worthy must
be genuinely anxious to be rid of the victim. So
he took hold of the rope and began to climb.
The mulatto and the dogs disappeared from the
upper edge of the pit.</p>

<p>As his head came up above the level of the
flooring Benson saw the mulatto and the dogs
in the next room, the connecting door of which
had been taken from its hinges.</p>

<p><q>Come right in, Marse Benson. Dere ain'
nuffin' gwineter hu't yo',</q> came the rascal's
voice reassuringly. Jack obeyed by stepping
into the next room, though he kept watch over
the dogs out of the corners of his eyes.</p>

<p><q>Now, yo' lie right down on de flo', Marse
Benson,</q> commanded the master of the situation.
<q>Ah's gotter tie yo' up, befo' Ah can
staht yo' back ter 'Napolis, but dere ain' no
hahm gwine come ter yo'.</q></p>

<p>Making a virtue of necessity, Captain Jack
lay down as directed, passing his hands behind
his back. These were deftly secured, after
which his ankles were treated in the same
fashion. Immediately the mulatto, who was
strong and wiry, lifted the boy and the lantern
together. The dogs remaining behind, Jack
was carried out into the yard, where he discovered
that daylight was coming on in the East.
<pb n="091" /><anchor id="Pg091" />
He was dumped on the ground long enough to
permit his captor to lock the door securely.
Then the submarine boy was lifted once more,
carried around the corner of the house and
dumped in the bottom of a shabby old delivery
wagon. A canvas was pulled over him, concealing
him from any chance passer. Then the
mulatto ran around to the seat, picking up the
reins and starting the horse.</p>

<p>It seemed like a long drive to the boy, though
Benson was certainly in no position to judge
time accurately. At last the team was halted,
along a stretch of road in a deep woods. The
mulatto lifted the submarine boy out to the
ground.</p>

<p><q>Now, w'en yo's got yo' se'f free, yo' can
take de road in dat direckshun,</q> declared the
fellow, pointing. <q>Bimeby yo' come in sight ob
de town. Now, Marse Benson, w'at happen to
yo' las' night am all in de co'se ob a lifetime, an'
Ah hope you ain't got no bad feelin's. Yo' suttinly
done learn somet'ing new in de way ob
tricks. Good-bye, sah, an' mah compliments to
yo', Marse Benson.</q></p>

<p>With that the guide of the night before swiftly
cut the cords at Jack's wrists, then as swiftly
leaped to the seat of the wagon, whipping up the
horse and disappearing in a cloud of dust.</p>

<p>Jack, having now no knife, and the bonds
<pb n="092" /><anchor id="Pg092" />
about his ankles being tied with many hard
knots, spent some precious minutes in freeing
his feet. At last he stood up, fire in his eyes.</p>

<p><q>Oh, pshaw! There's no sense in trying to
run after that rascal and his wagon,</q> decided
the young submarine skipper. <q>I haven't the
slightest idea what direction he took after he
got out of sight, and&mdash;oh, gracious! I'm under
orders to be aboard the 'Farnum' at eight this
morning. And on Mr. Farnum's business, at
that!</q></p>

<p>Clenching his hands vengefully, Jack started
along in the direction pointed out by his late
captor. Brisk walking wore some of the edge
off his great wrath. Catching a comprehensive
glimpse of himself, Jack could not keep back a
grim laugh.</p>

<p><q>Well, I certainly am a dandy to spring myself
on the trim and slick Naval Academy!</q> he
gritted. <q>What a treat I'll be to the cadets!
That is, if the sentry ever lets me through the
gate into the Academy grounds.</q></p>

<p>As he hurried along, Jack Benson decided
that he simply could not go to the Naval
Academy presenting any such grotesque picture
as he did now. Yet he had no money about him
with which to purchase more presentable clothes
in town. So he formed another plan.</p>

<p>Within a few minutes he came in sight of
<pb n="093" /><anchor id="Pg093" />
Annapolis. Hurrying on faster, he at last entered
the town. The further he went the more
painfully conscious the boy became of the
ludicrous appearance that he made. He saw
men and women turn their heads to look after
him, and his cheeks burned to a deep scarlet that
glowed over the sea-bronze of his skin.</p>

<p><q>The single consolation I have is that not a
solitary person in town knows me, anyway,</q>
he muttered. Then he caught sight of a clock
on a church steeple&mdash;twenty-five minutes of
eight.</p>

<p><q>That means a fearful hustle,</q> he muttered,
and went ahead under such steam that he all but
panted. At last he came to the Maryland
House, opposite the State Capitol grounds.
Into the office of the hotel he darted, going
straight up to the desk.</p>

<p>A clerk who had been on duty for hours, and
who was growing more drowsy every moment,
stared at the boy in amazement.</p>

<p><q>See here, you ragamuffin, what&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>My name is Benson,</q> began the boy, breathlessly.
<q>I'm a guest of the house&mdash;arrived last
night. I&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>You, a guest of <hi rend="font-style: italic">this</hi> house?</q> demanded the
clerk of the most select hotel in the town.
<q>You&mdash;</q></p>

<p>That was as far as the disgust of the clerk
<pb n="094" /><anchor id="Pg094" />
would permit him to go in words. A score of
well-dressed gentlemen were staring in astonishment
at the scene. The clerk nodded to two
stout porters who had suspended their work
nearby.</p>

<p>It had been Jack Benson's purpose to go to
his room and keep out of sight, while despatching
one of the colored bell-boys of the hotel with
a note to Hal Hastings, asking that chum to send
him up a uniform and other articles of attire.
However, before the young submarine captain
fully realized what was happening, the two porters
had seized him. Firmly, even though
gently, they hustled him out through the entrance
onto the street.</p>

<p><q>Scat!</q> advised one of the pair.</p>

<p>Jack started to protest, then realized the
hopelessness of such a course. In truth, he did
not blame the hotel folks in the least.</p>

<p><q>Oh, well,</q> he sighed, paling as soon as the
new flush of mortification had died out, <q>there's
nothing for it but to hurry to the Academy. I
hope the sentries won't shoot when they see
me,</q> he added, bitterly.</p>

<p>Across the State Capitol grounds he hurried,
then down through a side street until he arrived
at the gate of the Academy grounds.</p>

<p><q>Halt!</q> challenged a sentry, as soon as Jack
showed his face through the gateway.</p>

<p><pb n="095" /><anchor id="Pg095" />
Young Benson stopped, bringing his heels together
with a click.</p>

<p><q>What do you want? Where are you going?</q>
demanded the marine.</p>

<p><q>I know I look pretty tough,</q> Jack admitted,
shamefacedly. <q>But I belong aboard the 'Farnum,'
one of the submarines that arrived last
night. And I'm due there at this minute.
Please don't delay me.</q></p>

<p><q>All right,</q> replied the sentry, after surveying
the boy from head to foot once more. Then
he added, in a lower tone, with just the suspicion
of a grin showing at the corners of his mouth:</p>

<p><q>Say, friend, for a stranger, you must have
had a high old frolic in the town last night.</q></p>

<p>Jack frowned. The sentry's grin broadened
a bit. As he did not offer to detain the boy
longer, Benson hurried on along one of the
walks. He took as short a course as he could
making straight for the Basin, where he made
out the <q>Hudson</q> and the two submarines.</p>

<p><q>Hey! There's the captain!</q> shouted Eph,
wonderingly, for Somers's eyes were sharp at
all times.</p>

<p>Out of the conning tower sprang Hal Hastings,
looking eagerly in the direction in which
Eph Somers pointed:</p>

<p><q>Eh?</q> muttered another person, lounging
near the rail of the gunboat. Then Lieutenant
<pb n="096" /><anchor id="Pg096" />
Commander Mayhew, after a keen, wholly disapproving
look at the hard-looking figure of a
young man at the landing, started, as he muttered:</p>

<p><q>Benson, by all that's horrible! How did he
come to be in that fearful shape? He must have
been in one of the worst resorts within miles of
Annapolis!</q></p>

<p><q>This isn't the first time the young man has
come back the worse for wear,</q> the lieutenant
commander continued, under his breath. <q>His
friends were loyal enough to him, that time. I
wonder if they can be, to-day?</q></p>

<p>One of the shore boats, waiting about in the
Basin, put young Benson aboard the <q>Farnum</q>
as soon as he explained who he was. Hal
and Eph stood awaiting the coming of their
young commander, their faces full of concern
and anxiety. Both gripped Jack's hand as soon
as he gained the platform deck of the submarine.</p>

<p><q>Come below,</q> whispered Hal. <q>We'll talk
there. You need a bath and to get into a uniform
as quickly as you can.</q></p>

<p>This need Jack Benson proceeded to realize
without an instant's delay. While he washed
himself off, in one of the staterooms aft, he
talked through the door, which had been left
ajar. He continued his story while he dressed.</p>

<p><pb n="097" /><anchor id="Pg097" />
<q>We were fearfully anxious this morning,</q>
Hal confessed. <q>I went to sleep last night, and
didn't know of your absence until this morning.
Then Eph and I decided to come on down to the
boat to see if you were here. We were just
planning to send quiet word to the Annapolis
police when Eph spotted you coming.</q></p>

<p><q>And Truax?</q> inquired Captain Jack.</p>

<p><q>He and Williamson are forward in the
engine-room, now, at breakfast.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, well, Truax wouldn't know anything
about the scrape, anyway,</q> returned Jack.
<q>His name was learned and used&mdash;that's all.</q></p>

<p><q>Are you going to try to find that place, catch
the mulatto and force the return of your
money?</q> demanded Eph Somers.</p>

<p><q>I've got to think that over,</q> muttered Jack,
as he drew on a spick-and-span uniform blouse.
<q>I don't know whether there'll be any use in
trying to find that mulatto. I haven't the least
idea where his place is. Even if I found it, it's
ten to one I wouldn't find the fellow there.</q></p>

<p><q>'Farnum,' ahoy!</q> roared a voice alongside,
the voice coming down through the open conning
tower.</p>

<p>Eph ran to answer. When he returned, he
announced:</p>

<p><q>Compliments of Lieutenant Commander
Mayhew, and will Mr. Benson wait on the lieutenant
<pb n="098" /><anchor id="Pg098" />
commander on board the parent boat?</q></p>

<p><q>I will,</q> assented Jack, with a wry face, <q>and
here's where I have to do some tall but truthful
explaining to a man who isn't in the least likely
to believe a word I say. I can guess what Mr.
Mayhew is thinking, and is going to keep on
thinking!</q></p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER IX: TRUAX GIVES A HINT</head>

<p>
It was a tailor-made, clean, crisp and new-looking
young submarine commander who
stepped into the naval cutter alongside.</p>

<p>Jack Benson looked as natty as a young man
could look, and his uniform was that of a naval
officer, save for the absence of the insignia of
rank.</p>

<p>Up the side gangway of the gunboat Jack
mounted, carrying himself in the best naval
style. On deck stood a sentry, an orderly waiting
beside him.</p>

<p><q>Lieutenant Commander Mayhew will see
you in his cabin, sir,</q> announced the orderly.
<q>I will show you the way, sir.</q></p>

<p>Mr. Mayhew was seated before a desk in his
cabin when the orderly piloted the submarine
boy in. The naval officer did not rise, nor did
he ask the boy to take a seat. Jack Benson was
<pb n="099" /><anchor id="Pg099" />
very well aware that he stood in Mr. Mayhew's
presence in the light of a culprit.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson,</q> began Mr. Mayhew, eyeing
him closely, <q>you are not in the naval service,
and are not therefore amenable to its discipline.
At the same time, however, your employers have
furnished you to act, in some respects, as a civilian
instructor in submarine boating before the
cadets. While you are here on that duty it is
to be expected, therefore, that you will conform
generally to the rules of conduct as laid down at
the Naval Academy.</q></p>

<p><q>Yes, sir,</q> replied Jack.</p>

<p><q>As I am at present in charge of the submarine
purchased by the United States from
your company, and at least in nominal charge
of the 'Farnum,' as well, I am, in a measure,
to be looked upon, for the present, as your commanding
officer.</q></p>

<p><q>Yes, sir,</q> assented the boy.</p>

<p><q>You came aboard your craft, this morning,
in a very questionable looking condition.</q></p>

<p><q>Yes, sir.</q></p>

<p>Jack Benson's composure was perfect. His
sense of discipline was also exact. He did not
propose to offer any explanations until such
were asked of him.</p>

<p><q>Have you anything to say, Mr. Benson, as
to that condition, and how you came to be in it?</q></p>

<p><pb n="100" /><anchor id="Pg100" />
<q>Shall I explain it to you, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>I shall be glad to hear your explanation.</q></p>

<p>Thereupon, the submarine boy plunged into
a concise description of what had happened to
him the night before. The lieutenant commander
did not once interrupt him, but, when
Jack had finished, Mr. Mayhew observed:</p>

<p><q>That is a very remarkable story, Mr. Benson.
Most remarkable.</q></p>

<p><q>Yes, sir, it is. May I ask if you doubt my
story?</q></p>

<p>Jack looked straight into the officer's eyes as
he put the question bluntly. An officer of the
Army or of the Navy <hi rend="font-style: italic">must not</hi> answer a question
untruthfully. Neither, as a rule, may he
make an evasive answer. So the lieutenant
commander thought a moment, before he replied:</p>

<p><q>I don't feel that I know you well enough,
Mr. Benson, to express an opinion that might be
wholly fair to you. The most I can say, now,
is that I very sincerely hope such a thing will
not happen again during your stay at the Naval
Academy.</q></p>

<p><q>It won't, sir,</q> promised Jack Benson, <q>if I
have hereafter the amount of good judgment
that I ought to be expected to possess.</q></p>

<p><q>I hope not, Mr. Benson, for it would destroy
your usefulness here. A civilian instructor
<pb n="101" /><anchor id="Pg101" />
here, as much as a naval instructor, must possess
the whole confidence and respect of the
cadet battalion. I hope none of the cadets who
may have seen you this morning recognized
you.</q></p>

<p>Then, taking on a different tone, Mr. Mayhew
informed his young listener that a section of
cadets would board the <q>Farnum</q> at eleven
that morning, another section at three in the
afternoon, and a third at four o'clock.</p>

<p><q>Of course you will have everything aboard
your craft wholly shipshape, Mr. Benson, and I
trust I hardly need add that, in the Navy, we
are punctual to the minute.</q></p>

<p><q>You will find me punctual to the minute
before, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>Very good, Mr. Benson. That is all. You
may go.</q></p>

<p>Jack saluted, then turned away, finding his
way to the deck. The cutter was still alongside,
and conveyed him back to the <q>Farnum.</q></p>

<p><q>Mr. Mayhew demanded your story, of
course?</q> propounded Hal Hastings. <q>What
did he think?</q></p>

<p><q>He didn't say so,</q> replied Jack Benson,
with a wry smile, <q>but he let me see that he
thought I was out of my element on a submarine
boat.</q></p>

<p><q>How so?</q></p>

<p><pb n="102" /><anchor id="Pg102" />
<q>Why, it is very plain that Mr. Mayhew
thinks I ought to employ my time writing improbable
fiction.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, Mayhew be bothered!</q> exploded Eph.</p>

<p><q>Hardly,</q> retorted Jack. <q>Mr. Mayhew is
an officer and a gentleman. I admit that my
yarn <hi rend="font-style: italic">does</hi> sound fishy to a stranger. Besides,
fellows, Mr. Mayhew represents the naval officers
through whose good opinion our employers
hope to sell a big fleet of submarine torpedo
boats to the United States Government.</q></p>

<p><q>Then what are you going to do about it?</q>
asked Hal, as the three boys reached the cabin
below.</p>

<p><q>First of all, I'm going to rummage about and
get myself some breakfast.</q></p>

<p><q>If you do, there'll be a fight,</q> growled Eph
Somers. <q>I'll hash up a breakfast for you.</q></p>

<p><q>And, afterwards?</q> persisted Hal.</p>

<p><q>I'm going to try to win Mr. Mayhew's good
opinion, and that of every other naval officer or
cadet I may happen to meet.</q></p>

<p><q>Why the cadets, particularly?</q> asked Eph
Somers.</p>

<p><q>Because, for one business reason, the cadets
are going to be the naval officers of to-morrow,
and the Pollard Submarine Boat Company
hopes to be building craft for the Navy for a
good many years to come.</q></p>

<p><pb n="103" /><anchor id="Pg103" />
<q>Good enough!</q> nodded Hal, while Eph
dodged away to get that breakfast ready.</p>

<p>Sam Truax lounged back in the engine room,
smoking a short pipe. With him stuck Williamson,
for Eph had privately instructed the
machinist from the Farnum yard not to leave
the stranger alone in the engine room.</p>

<p><q>Why don't you go up on deck and get a few
whiffs of fresh air?</q> asked Truax.</p>

<p><q>Oh, I'm comfortable down here,</q> grunted
the machinist, who was stretched out on one of
the leather-cushioned seats that ran along the
side of the engine room.</p>

<p><q>I should think you'd want to get out of here
once in a while, though,</q> returned Truax.</p>

<p><q>Why?</q> asked the machinist. <q>Anything
you want to be left alone here for?</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, of course not,</q> drawled Truax, blowing
out a cloud of tobacco smoke.</p>

<p><q>Then I guess I'll stay where I am,</q> nodded
Williamson.</p>

<p><q>Sorry, but you'll have to stop all smoking in
here now,</q> announced Eph, thrusting his head
in at the doorway. <q>There'll be a lot of cadets
aboard at eleven o'clock, and we want the air
clear and sweet. You'd better go all over the
machinery and see that everything is in applepie
order and appearance. Mr. Hastings will
be in here soon to inspect it.</q></p>

<p><pb n="104" /><anchor id="Pg104" />
<q>Just what rank does <hi rend="font-style: italic">that</hi> young turkey-cock
hold on board?</q> sneered Truax, when the door
had closed.</p>

<p><q>Don't know, I'm sure,</q> replied Williamson.
<q>All I know is that the three youngsters are
aboard here to run the boat and show it off to
the best advantage. My pay is running right
along, and I've no kick at taking orders from
any one of them.</q></p>

<p><q>This is where I go on smoking, anyway,</q>
declared Truax, insolently, striking a match and
lighting his pipe again. Williamson reached
over, snatching the pipe from between the other
man's teeth and dumping out the coals, after
which the machinist coolly dropped the pipe into
one of his own pockets.</p>

<p><q>If you go on this way,</q> warned Williamson,
<q>Captain Benson will get it into his head to put
you on shore in a jiffy, and for good.</q></p>

<p><q>I'd like to see him try it,</q> sneered Sam
Truax.</p>

<p><q>You'll get your wish, if you go on the way
you've been going!</q></p>

<p><q>Humph! I don't believe the Benson boy
carries the size or the weight to put me ashore.</q></p>

<p><q>He doesn't need any size or weight,</q> retorted
Williamson, crisply. <q>If Captain Benson
wants you off this boat, it's only the matter
of a moment for him to get a squad of marines
<pb n="105" /><anchor id="Pg105" />
on board&mdash;and you'll march off to the 'Rogues'
March.'</q></p>

<p><q>So that's the way he'd work it, eh?</q> demanded
Sam Truax, turning green and ugly
around the lips.</p>

<p><q>You bet it is,</q> retorted the machinist.
<q>We're practically a part of the United States
Navy for these few days, and naval rules will
govern any game we may get into.</q></p>

<p>On that hint things went along better in the
engine room. When Hal Hastings came in to
inspect he found nothing to criticise.</p>

<p>At the minute of eleven o'clock a squad of
some twenty cadets came marching down to the
landing in front of the boat house. There Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew and one of his
engineer officers met them. Two cutters manned
by sailors brought the party out alongside,
where Jack and Hal stood ready to receive them.</p>

<p>A very natty looking squad of future admirals
came aboard, grouping themselves about on the
platform deck. It was rather a tight squeeze
for so many human beings in that space.</p>

<p>After greeting the submarine boys, Mr. Mayhew
turned to the cadets, calling their attention
to the lines and outer construction of the <q>Farnum.</q>
Then he turned to the three submarine
boys, signing to them to crowd forward.</p>

<p><q>These young gentlemen,</q> announced the
<pb n="106" /><anchor id="Pg106" />
lieutenant commander, <q>are Mr. Benson, Mr.
Hastings and Mr. Somers. All three are thoroughly
familiar with the Pollard type of boat.
As the Navy has purchased one Pollard boat,
and may acquire others, it is well that you
cadets should understand all the working details
of the Pollard Submarine Company's crafts. A
few of you at a time will now step into the conning
tower, and Mr. Benson will explain to you
the steering and control gear used there.</q></p>

<p>Half a dozen of the cadets managed to squeeze
into the conning tower. Jack experienced an
odd feeling, half of embarrassment, as he explained
before so many attentive pairs of eyes.
Then another squad of cadets took the place of
the first on-lookers. After a while all had been
instructed in the use of the conning tower
appliances.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson,</q> continued the lieutenant commander,
<q>will now lead the way for all hands to
the cabin. There he will explain the uses of the
diving controls, the compressed air apparatus,
and other details usually worked from the
cabin.</q></p>

<p>Down below came the cadets, in orderly fashion,
without either haste or lagging. Having
warmed up to his subject, Jack Benson lectured
earnestly, even if not with fine skill. At last he
paused.</p>

<p><pb n="107" /><anchor id="Pg107" />
<q>Any of the cadets may now ask questions,</q>
announced Lieutenant Commander Mayhew.</p>

<p>There was a pause, then one of the older
cadets turned to Jack to ask:</p>

<p><q>What volume of compressed air do you
carry at your full capacity?</q></p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson's present status,</q> rapped Mr.
Mayhew, quickly, <q>is that of a civilian instructor.
Any cadet who addresses Mr. Benson will
therefore say 'sir,' in all cases, just as in addressing
an officer of the Navy.</q></p>

<p>The cadet so corrected, who was at least
twenty-one years old, flushed as he glanced
swiftly at sixteen-year-old Jack. To say <q>sir</q>
to such a youngster seemed almost like a
humiliation. Yet the cadet repeated his question,
adding the <q>sir.</q> Jack quickly answered
the question. Then two or three other questions
were asked by other cadets. It was plain,
however, that to all of the cadets the use of
<q>sir</q> to so young a boy appealed, at least, to
their sense of humor.</p>

<p>Through the engine room door Sam Truax
and Williamson stood taking it all in. Sam saw
a flash in the eye of one big cadet when the question
of <q>sir</q> came up.</p>

<p>Presently the squad filed into the engine room.
Here Hal Hastings had the floor for instruction.
He did his work coolly, admirably, though he
<pb n="108" /><anchor id="Pg108" />
asked Jack Benson to explain a few of the
points.</p>

<p>Then the questions began, directed at Hal.
This time none of the cadets, under the watchful
eyes of Mr. Mayhew, forgot to say <q>sir</q> when
speaking to Hastings.</p>

<p>Sam Truax edged up behind the big cadet
whose eyes he had seen flash a few moments
before.</p>

<p><q>Go after Benson, good and hard,</q> whispered
Truax.</p>

<p>The cadet looked keenly at Truax.</p>

<p><q>You can have a lot of fun with Benson,</q>
whispered Truax, <q>if you fire a lot of questions
at him, hard and fast. Benson is a conceited fellow,
who knows a few things about the boat, but
you can get him rattled and red-faced in no
time.</q></p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER X: A SQUINT AT THE CAMELROORELEPHANT</head>

<p>
The big cadet wheeled upon Jack.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson, how long have you been
engaged on submarine boats, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>Since July,</q> Jack replied.</p>

<p><q>July of this year?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes.</q></p>

<p><q>And it is now October. Do you consider
<pb n="109" /><anchor id="Pg109" />
that enough time, sir, in which to learn much
about submarine boats?</q></p>

<p><q>That depends,</q> Skipper Jack replied,
<q>upon a man's ability in such a subject.</q></p>

<p><q>Is it long enough time, sir, for a boy?</q></p>

<p>That was rather a hard dig. Instantly the
other cadets became all attention.</p>

<p><q>It depends upon the boy, as it would upon
the man,</q> Jack answered.</p>

<p><q>Do you consider, Mr. Benson, that you know
all about submarine boats, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, no.</q></p>

<p><q>Who does, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>No one that I ever heard of,</q> Jack answered.
<q>Few men interested in submarine
boats know much beyond the peculiarities of
their own boats.</q></p>

<p><q>And that applies equally to boys, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> Jack smiled.</p>

<p><q>Do you consider yourself, sir, fully competent
to handle this craft?</q></p>

<p><q>I'd rather someone else would say it,</q> Jack
replied. <q>My employers, though, seem to consider
me competent.</q></p>

<p><q>What is this material, sir?</q> continued the
cadet, resting a hand on a piston rod.</p>

<p><q>Brass,</q> Benson replied, promptly.</p>

<p><q>Do you know the specific gravity and the
tensile strength of this brass?</q></p>

<p><pb n="110" /><anchor id="Pg110" />
Before Jack could answer Mr. Mayhew broke
in, crisply:</p>

<p><q>That will do, Mr. Merriam. Your questions
appear to go beyond the limits of ordinary instruction,
and to partake more of the nature of
a cross-examination. Such questions take up
the time of the instruction tour unnecessarily.</q></p>

<p>Cadet Merriam flushed slightly, as he saluted
the naval officer. Then the cadet's jaws settled
squarely. He remained silent.</p>

<p>A few more questions and the hour was up.</p>

<p>Lieutenant Commander Mayhew gave the
order for the cadets to pass above and embark
in the cutters. He remained behind long
enough to say to the three submarine boys:</p>

<p><q>You have done splendidly, gentlemen&mdash;far
better than I expected you to do. If you manage
the sea instruction as well, in the days to
come, our cadets will have a first-class idea of
the handling of the Pollard boats.</q></p>

<p><q>I wish, sir,</q> Jack replied, after thanking the
officer, <q>that the cadets were not required to say
'sir' to us. It sounds odd, and I am quite certain
that none of the young men like it.</q></p>

<p><q>It is necessary, though,</q> replied Mr. Mayhew.
<q>They are required to do it with all
civilian instructors, and it would never do to
draw distinctions on account of age. Yes; it is
necessary.</q></p>

<p><pb n="111" /><anchor id="Pg111" />
When the second squad of cadets arrived, in
the afternoon, the three submarine boys found
themselves ready for their task without misgivings.
Eph took more part in the explanations
than he had done in the forenoon. Then came a
third squad of cadets, to be taken over the same
ground. The young men of both these squads
used the <q>sir</q> at once, having been previously
warned by one of the naval officers.</p>

<p><q>That will be all for to-day, Mr. Benson, and
thank you and your friends for some excellent
work,</q> said Lieutenant Commander Mayhew,
when the third squad had filed away.</p>

<p><q>Say, for hard work I'd like this job right
along,</q> yawned Eph Somers, when the three
were alone in the cabin. <q>Just talking three
times a day&mdash;what an easy way of living!</q></p>

<p><q>It's all right for a while,</q> agreed Jack.
<q>But it would grow tiresome after a few weeks,
anyway. Lying here in the Basin, and talking
like a salesman once in a while, isn't like a life
of adventure.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, you can sigh for adventure, if you
wish,</q> yawned Eph. <q>As for me, I've had
enough hard work to appreciate a rest once in a
while. Going into the town to-night, Jack?</q></p>

<p><q>Into town?</q> laughed the young skipper.
<q>I went last night&mdash;and some of the folks didn't
do a thing to me, did they?</q></p>

<p><pb n="112" /><anchor id="Pg112" />
<q>Aren't you going to report the robbery to
the police?</q> demanded Hal, opening his eyes in
surprise.</p>

<p><q>Not in a rush,</q> Jack answered. <q>If I do,
the police may start at once, and that mulatto
and his friends, being on the watch, will take
the alarm and get away. If I wait two or three
days, then the mulatto's crowd will think I've
dropped the whole thing. I reckon the waiting
game will fool them more than any other.</q></p>

<p><q>Yes, and all the money they got away from
you will be spent,</q> muttered Eph.</p>

<p>Jack, none the less, decided to wait and think
the matter over.</p>

<p>Supper over, the submarine boys, for want of
anything else to do, sat and read until about nine
o'clock. Then Jack looked up.</p>

<p><q>This is getting mighty tedious,</q> he complained.
<q>What do you fellows say to getting
on shore and stretching our legs in a good
walk?</q></p>

<p><q>In town?</q> grinned Eph, slyly.</p>

<p>Jack flushed, then grinned.</p>

<p><q>No!</q> he answered quietly; <q>about the
Academy grounds.</q></p>

<p><q>I wonder if it would be against the regulations
for a lot of rank outsiders like us to go
through the grounds at this hour?</q></p>

<p><q>'Rank outsiders'?</q> mimicked Jack Benson,
<pb n="113" /><anchor id="Pg113" />
laughing. <q>You forget, Hal, old fellow, that
we're instruct&mdash;hem! civilian instructors&mdash;here.</q></p>

<p><q>I wonder, though, if it would be in good
taste for us to go prowling through the grounds
at this hour?</q> persisted Hal.</p>

<p><q>There's one sure way to find out,</q> proposed
Benson. <q>We can try it, and, if no marine sentry
chases us, we can conclude that we're moving
about within our rights. Come along, fellows.</q></p>

<p>Putting on their caps, the three went up on
the platform deck. The engine room door was
locked and Williamson and Truax had already
turned in. There was a shore boat at the landing.
Jack sent a low-voiced hail that brought
the boat out alongside.</p>

<p><q>Will it be proper for us to go through the
Academy grounds at this hour?</q> Jack inquired
of the petty officer in the stern.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir; there's no regulation against it.
And, anyway, sir, you're all stationed here, just
now.</q></p>

<p><q>Thank you. Then please take us ashore.</q></p>

<p>At this hour the walks through the grounds
were nearly deserted. A few officers, and some
of their ladies living at the naval station, were
out. The cadets were all in their quarters in
barracks, hard at study, or supposed to be.</p>

<p>For some time the submarine boys strolled
<pb n="114" /><anchor id="Pg114" />
about, enjoying the air and the views they obtained
of buildings and grounds. Back at Dunhaven
the air had been frosty. Here, at this
more southern port, the October night was
balmy, wholly pleasant.</p>

<p><q>I wonder if these cadets here ever have any
real fun?</q> questioned Eph Somers.</p>

<p><q>I've heard&mdash;or read&mdash;that they do,</q>
laughed Hal.</p>

<p><q>What sort of fun?</q></p>

<p><q>Well, for one thing, the cadets of the upper
classes haze the plebe cadets a good deal.</q></p>

<p><q>Humph! That's fun for all but the plebes.
Who are the plebes, anyway?</q></p>

<p><q>The new cadets; the youngest class at the
Academy,</q> Hal replied.</p>

<p><q>What do they do to the plebe?</q> Eph wanted
to know.</p>

<p><q>I guess the only way you could find that out,
Eph, would be to join the plebe class.</q></p>

<p><q>Reckon, when I come to Annapolis, I'll enter
the class above the plebe,</q> retorted Somers.</p>

<p>The three submarine boys had again approached
the cadet barracks building.</p>

<p><q>Here comes a cadet now, Eph,</q> whispered
Jack. <q>If he has the time, I don't doubt he'd
be glad to answer any questions you may have
for him.</q></p>

<p>Young Benson offered this suggestion in a
<pb n="115" /><anchor id="Pg115" />
spirit of mischief, hoping the approaching cadet,
when questioned, would resent it stiffly. Then
Eph would be almost certain to flare up.</p>

<p>The cadet, however, suddenly turned, coming
straight toward them, smiling.</p>

<p><q>Good evening, gentlemen,</q> was the cadet's
greeting.</p>

<p><q>Good evening,</q> was Jack's hearty reply.</p>

<p><q>You've never been here before, have you,
sir?</q></p>

<p><q>Never,</q> Jack confessed.</p>

<p><q>Then I take it you have never, sir, seen the
camelroorelephant?</q></p>

<p><q>The cam&mdash;</q> began Eph Somers.</p>

<p>Then he stopped, clapping both hands to his
right jaw.</p>

<p><q>Won't you please hand that to us in
pieces?</q> begged Eph, speaking as though with
difficulty.</p>

<p>The cadet laughed heartily, then added:</p>

<p><q>Don't try to pronounce it, gentlemen, until
you've seen the camelroorelephant. It's a cadet
joke, but it's well worth seeing. Shall I take
you to it?</q></p>

<p><q>Why, yes, if you'll be good enough,</q> Jack
assented, heartily.</p>

<p>The cadet glanced quickly about him, then
said in a low voice:</p>

<p><q>This way, please, gentlemen.</q></p>

<p><pb n="116" /><anchor id="Pg116" />
He led the strangers quickly around the end
of barracks to an open space in the rear. Here
he halted.</p>

<p><q>Gentlemen, I must ask you to close your
eyes, and keep them closed, on honor, until I ask
you to open them again. You won't have to
keep your eyes closed more than sixty seconds
before the camelroorelephant will be ready for
inspection. Now, eyes closed, please.</q></p>

<p>Lingering only long enough to make sure that
his request had been met, the cadet stole noiselessly
away.</p>

<p>Nor was it many seconds later when all three
of the submarine boys began to feel suddenly
suspicious.</p>

<p><q>I'm going to open my eyes,</q> whispered
Eph.</p>

<p><q>You're on honor not to,</q> warned Jack Benson,
also in a whisper.</p>

<p><q>I didn't give my word,</q> retorted Eph, <q>and
I'm going to&mdash;oh, great shades of Santiago!</q></p>

<p>The very genuine note of concern in Eph's
voice caused Jack and Hal to open their own
eyes instantly.</p>

<p>Nor could any of the three repress a quick
start.</p>

<p>From all quarters naval cadets were advancing
stealthily upon them. Something in the
very attitude and poise of the young men told
<pb n="117" /><anchor id="Pg117" />
the submarine boys that these naval cadets were
out for mischief.</p>

<p><q>We're in for it!</q> breathed Jack, in an undertone.
<q>We're in for something real and
startling, I reckon. Fellows, brace up and take
your medicine, whatever it is, like men!</q></p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XI: BUT SOMETHING HAPPENED!</head>

<p>
Nor was Jack's guess in the least wrong.</p>

<p>Even had the submarine boys attempted
to bolt they would have found
it impossible. They were surrounded.</p>

<p>The cadets closed quickly in upon them.
There were more than thirty of these budding
young naval officers.</p>

<p>It was Cadet Merriam who stepped straight
up to Jack, giving him a grotesque and exaggerated
salute, as he rumbled out:</p>

<p><q>Good evening, SIR!</q></p>

<p>Like a flash Jack Benson comprehended.
These cadets intended fully to even up matters
for having been obliged to say <q>sir</q> to these
very youthful <q>civilian instructors.</q></p>

<p><q>Good evening,</q> Jack smiled.</p>

<p>"You have come to see the camelroorelephant,
SIR?"</p>

<p><pb n="118" /><anchor id="Pg118" />
<q>We've been told that we might have that
pleasure,</q> Jack responded, still smiling.</p>

<p><q>Perhaps you may,</q> retorted Cadet Merriam,
<q>though, first of all, it will be necessary
to prove yourselves worthy of the privilege,
SIR.</q></p>

<p><q>Anything within our power,</q> promised
Jack.</p>

<p><q>Then, SIR, let me see you all three stand 'at
attention.'</q></p>

<p><q>At attention</q> is the rigid attitude taken by
a United States soldier or sailor when in the
presence of his officers. Jack had already seen
men in that attitude, and did his best to imitate
it in smart military manner. Eph and Hal did
likewise.</p>

<p><q>No, no, no, you dense blockheads!</q> uttered
Cadet Midshipman Merriam. <q>'At attention'
upside down&mdash;on your hands!</q></p>

<p>The other cadet midshipmen now hemmed in
closely about the three. Jack thought he caught
the idea. He bent over, throwing his feet up in
the air and resting on his hands. Unable to
keep his balance, he walked two or three steps.</p>

<p><q>I didn't tell you to walk your post, blockhead!</q>
scowled Mr. Merriam. <q>Stand still
when at attention.</q></p>

<p>Jack tried, but of course made a ludicrous
failure of standing still on his hands. So did
<pb n="119" /><anchor id="Pg119" />
Hal and Eph. The latter, truth to tell, didn't
try very hard, for his freckled temper was coming
a bit to the surface.</p>

<p><q>You're the rawest recruits, the worst landlubbers
I've ever seen,</q> declared Cadet Midshipman
Merriam, with severe dignity. <q>Rest,
before you try it any further.</q></p>

<p>The smile had all but left Jack Benson's lips,
though he tried to keep it there. Hal Hastings
made the most successful attempt at looking
wholly unconcerned. Eph's face was growing
redder every minute. It is a regrettable fact
that Eph was really beginning to want to fight.</p>

<p><q>See here,</q> ordered Mr. Merriam, suddenly,
taking Jack by the arm, <q>you're a horse, a full-blooded
Arab steed&mdash;understand!</q></p>

<p>He gave young Benson a push that sent that
youngster down to the ground on all fours.</p>

<p><q>You're General Washington, out to take a
ride on your horse,</q> announced Mr. Merriam,
turning to Hal. <q>It's a ride for your health.
Do you understand? It will be wholly for your
health to take that ride!</q></p>

<p>Hal Hastings couldn't help comprehending.
With a sheepish grin he sat astride of Jack Benson's
back as the latter stood on all fours.</p>

<p><q>Go ahead with your ride, General,</q> called
Mr. Merriam.</p>

<p>Jack pranced as best he could, on all fours,
<pb n="120" /><anchor id="Pg120" />
Hal making the load of his own weight as light
as he could. Over the ground the pair moved
in this nonsensical ride, the cadets following and
grinning their appreciation of the nonsense.</p>

<p>Two of the young men followed, holding Eph
by the arms between them. Mr. Merriam now
turned upon the unhappy freckled boy.</p>

<p><q>Down on all fours,</q> ordered Mr. Merriam.
<q>You're the measly dog that barked at General
Washington on that famous ride. Bark, you
wretched yellow cur&mdash;bark, bark, <hi rend="font-style: italic">bark</hi>!</q></p>

<p>Though Eph Somers was madder than ever,
he had just enough judgment remaining to feel
that the wisest thing would be to obey instructions.
So, on all fours, Eph raced after Jack,
barking at him.</p>

<p><q>See how frightened the horse is,</q> muttered
one of the midshipmen.</p>

<p>Taking the hint, Jack shied as well as he
could.</p>

<p><q>That's all,</q> said Mr. Merriam, at last.
<q>All of that, at least.</q></p>

<p>As the three submarine boys rose, each found
himself gently held by a pair of cadet midshipmen.
It was a more or less polite hint that the
ordeal was not yet over. Mr. Merriam turned to
whisper to one of the cadets, who darted inside
the barracks building. He was back, promptly,
carrying a folded blanket on his arm.</p>

<p><pb n="123" /><anchor id="Pg123" />
A grin spread over the faces of the assembled
cadet midshipmen. The bearer of the blanket
at once unfolded it. As many of the cadets as
could got hold of the edges, bending, holding the
blanket spread out over the ground.</p>

<p>Jack Benson's two captors suddenly hurled
him across the length of the blanket with no gentle
force. Instantly the cadets holding the
blankets straightened up, jerking it taut. Up
into the air a couple of feet bounded Jack. As
his body came down the cadets holding the
blanket gave it a still harder jerk. This time
Jack shot up into the air at least four feet. It
was the same old blanket-tossing, long popular
both in the Army and Navy. Every time Jack
landed the blanket was given a harder jerk by
those holding it. Benson began to go higher
and higher.</p>

<figure url="images/image03.jpg" rend="w50">
  <anchor id="image03" />
  <index index="fig" />
  <head rend="font-size: x-small">Eph Raced After Jack, Barking at Him.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration: Eph Raced After Jack, Barking at Him.</figDesc>
</figure>

<p>And now the cadets broke into a low, monotonous
chant, in time to their movements. It
ran:</p>

<lg type="limerick">
<l rend="text-indent: 2">Sir, sir, surcingle!</l>
<l rend="text-indent: 4">Sir, sir, circle!</l>
<l rend="text-indent: 2">Sir, sir, with a shingle&mdash;</l>
<l rend="text-indent: 4">Sir, sir, sir!</l>
</lg>

<p>As regular as drumbeats the cadets ripped out
the syllables of the refrain. At each word Jack
Benson's body shot higher and higher. These
young men were experts in the gentle art of
<pb n="124" /><anchor id="Pg124" />
blanket-tossing. Ere long the submarine boy
was going up into the air some eight or nine feet
at every tautening of the blanket.</p>

<p>As for escape, that was out of the question.
No sooner did the submarine boy touch the
blanket than he shot skyward again. Had he
desired to he could not have called out. The
motion and the sudden jolts shook all the breath
out of him.</p>

<p><q>Ugh! Hm! Pleasant, isn't it?</q> uttered
Hal Hastings, grimly, under his breath.</p>

<p><q>If they try to do that to me,</q> whispered
Eph, hotly, under his breath, <q>I'll fight.</q></p>

<p><q>More simpleton you, then!</q> Hal shot back
at him in warning. <q>What chance do you think
you stand against a crowd like this?</q></p>

<p>Just as suddenly as it had begun the blanket-tossing
stopped. Yet, hardly had Jack been allowed
to step out than Hal Hastings was unceremoniously
dropped athwart the blanket. The
tossing began again, to the chant of:</p>

<lg type="limerick">
<l rend="text-indent: 2">Sir, sir, surcingle!</l>
<l rend="text-indent: 4">Sir, sir, circle!</l>
</lg>

<p>Right plentifully were these cadet midshipmen
avenging themselves for having had to say
<q>sir</q> to these young submarine boys that day.</p>

<p><q>Woof!</q> breathed Jack, as soon as breath
entered his body again. Eph clenched his fists
<pb n="125" /><anchor id="Pg125" />
tightly, as Hal continued to go higher and
higher. But at last Hastings's ordeal was over.</p>

<p><q>I suppose they'll try that on me!</q> gritted
Eph Somers to himself. <q>If they do&mdash;</q></p>

<p>That was far as he got, for Eph was suddenly
flung upon the blanket.</p>

<lg type="limerick">
<l rend="text-indent: 2">Sir, sir, surcingle!</l>
</lg>

<p>Then how Eph <hi rend="font-style: italic">did</hi> go up and down! It was
as though these cadet midshipmen knew that it
would make Eph mad, madder, maddest! These
budding young naval officers fairly bent to their
work, tautening and loosening on the blanket
until their muscles fairly ached.</p>

<p>It was lofty aerial work that Eph Somers was
doing. Up and up&mdash;higher and higher! Without
the need of any effort on his own part young
Somers was now traveling upward at the rate of
ten or eleven feet at every punctuated bound.</p>

<p>Then, suddenly, there came a sound that
chilled the blood of every young cadet midshipman
hazer present.</p>

<p><q><hi rend="font-style: italic">Halt!</hi> Where you are!</q></p>

<p>Under the shadow of the barracks building a
naval officer had appeared. He now came forward,
a frown on his face, eyeing the culprits.</p>

<p>It is no merry jest for cadet midshipmen to
be caught at hazing! And here were some
thirty of them&mdash;red-handed!</p>
</div>

<div>
<pb n="126" /><anchor id="Pg126" />
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XII: JACK BENSON, EXPERT EXPLAINER</head>

<p>
At the first word of command from the
officer several of the cadet midshipmen
who were near enough to an open doorway
vanished through it.</p>

<p>As the officer strode through the group of
startled young men a few more, left behind his
back, made a silent disappearance.</p>

<p>There were left, however, as the officer looked
about him, sixteen of the young men, all too
plainly headed and led by Cadet Midshipman
Merriam.</p>

<p><q>Young gentlemen,</q> said the officer, severely,
<q>I regret to find so many of you engaged in
hazing. It is doubly bad when your victims are
men outside the corps. And, if I mistake not,
these young gentlemen are here as temporary
civilian instructors in submarine work.</q></p>

<p>Mr. Merriam and his comrades made no reply
in words. Nor did their faces express much.
They stood at attention, looking stolidly ahead
of them, though their faces were turned toward
the officer. It was not the place of any of them
to speak unless the officer asked questions.</p>

<p>Severe as the hazing had been, however, Jack
<pb n="127" /><anchor id="Pg127" />
and Hal, at least, had taken it all in good part.
Nor was Jack bound by any of the rules of etiquette
that prevented the cadets from speaking.</p>

<p><q>May I offer a word, sir?</q> asked Jack,
wheeling upon the officer.</p>

<p><q>You were one of the victims of a hazing,
were you not?</q> demanded the officer, regarding
Jack, keenly.</p>

<p><q>Why, could you call it that, sir?</q> asked
Jack, a look of innocent surprise settling on his
face. <q>We called it a demonstration&mdash;an
explanation.</q></p>

<p><q>Demonstration? Explanation?</q> repeated
the officer, astonished in his turn. <q>What do
you mean, Mr.&mdash;er&mdash;?</q></p>

<p><q>Benson,</q> Jack supplied, quietly.</p>

<p><q>I think you would better tell me a little more,
Mr. Benson,</q> pursued the unknown naval
officer.</p>

<p><q>Why, it was like this, sir,</q> Jack continued.
<q>My two friends&mdash;Hastings and Somers&mdash;and
myself were talking about the West Point and
Annapolis hazings, of which we had heard and
read. We were talking about the subject when
a cadet came along. I suggested to Somers that
we ask the cadet about hazing. Well, sir, to
make a long story short, some of the cadets
undertook to show us just how hazing is&mdash;or
used to be&mdash;done at Annapolis.</q></p>

<p><pb n="128" /><anchor id="Pg128" />
<q>Oh! Then it was all thoroughly good-natured,
all in the way of a joke, to show you
something you wanted to know?</q> asked the
naval officer, slowly.</p>

<p><q>That's the way I took it,</q> replied Jack.
<q>So did Hastings and Somers. We've enjoyed
ourselves more than anyone else here has.</q></p>

<p>This was truth surely enough, for, in the last
two minutes, not one of the cadet midshipmen
present could have been accused of <hi rend="font-style: italic">enjoying</hi>
himself.</p>

<p><q>Then what took place here, Mr. Benson,
really took place at your request?</q> insisted the
naval officer.</p>

<p><q>It all answered the questions that we had
been asking,</q> Jack replied, promptly, though,
it must be admitted, rather evasively.</p>

<p><q>This is your understanding, too, Mr. Hastings?</q>
demanded the officer.</p>

<p><q>Surely,</q> murmured Hal.</p>

<p><q>You, Mr. Somers?</q></p>

<p><q>I&mdash;I haven't had so much fun since the gasoline
engine blew up,</q> protested Eph.</p>

<p><q>We entered most heartily into the spirit of
the thing,</q> Jack hastened on to say, <q>and feel
that we owe the deepest thanks to these young
gentlemen of the Navy. Yet, if our desire to
know more about the life&mdash;that is, the former
life&mdash;of the Academy is to result in getting our
<pb n="129" /><anchor id="Pg129" />
entertainers into any trouble, we shall never
cease regretting our unfortunate curiosity.</q></p>

<p>For some moments the naval officer regarded
the three submarine boys, solemnly, in turn.
From them he turned to look over the cadet midshipmen.
The latter looked as stolid, and stood
as rigidly at attention, as ever.</p>

<p><q>Under this presentation of the matter,</q> said
the officer, after a long pause, <q>I am not prepared
to say that there has been any violation
of discipline. At least, no grave infraction.
However, some of these young gentlemen are, I
believe, absent from their quarters without
leave. Mr. Merriam?</q></p>

<p><q>I have permission to be absent from my
quarters between nine and ten, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>Mr. Caldwell?</q></p>

<p><q>Absent from quarters without permission,
sir.</q></p>

<p>So on down through the list the officer ran.
Nine of the young men proved to have leave to
be away from their quarters. The other seven
did not have such permission. The names of
these seven, therefore, were written down to be
reported. The seven, too, were ordered at once
back to their quarters.</p>

<p>Having issued his instructions, the naval officer
turned and walked away. Jack and his
comrades, too, left the scene.</p>

<p><pb n="130" /><anchor id="Pg130" />
Yet they had not gone far when they heard
a low hail behind. Turning, they saw Cadet
Midshipmen Merriam hastening toward them.</p>

<p><q>Gentlemen,</q> he said, earnestly, as he
reached them, <q>it may not be best for me to be
seen lingering here to talk with you. But my
comrades wanted me to come after you and to
say that we think you bricks. You carried that
off finely, Mr. Benson. None of us will ever
forget it.</q></p>

<p><q>It wasn't much to do,</q> smiled Jack,
pleasantly.</p>

<p><q>It was quick-witted of you, and generous
too, sir,</q> rejoined Mr. Merriam, finding it now
very easy to employ the <q>sir.</q> <q>Probably you
agree with us that no great crime was committed,
anyway. But, just the same, hazing is
under a heavy ban these days. If you hadn't
saved the day as you did, sir, all of our cadet
party might have been dismissed the Service.
Those absent from quarters without leave
will get only a few demerits apiece. We
have that much to thank you for, sir, and we
do. All our thanks, remember. Good night,
sir.</q></p>

<p><q>My courage was down in my boots for a
while,</q> confessed Hal Hastings, as the three
chums continued their walk back to the Basin.</p>

<p><q>When?</q> demanded Eph, grimly. <q>When
<pb n="131" /><anchor id="Pg131" />
your boots&mdash;and the rest of you&mdash;were so high
up in the air over the blanket?</q></p>

<p><q>No; when the cadets were caught at it,</q>
replied Hal.</p>

<p><q>Say, Jack,</q> demanded Eph, <q>do you ever
give much thought to the future life?</q></p>

<p><q>Meaning the life in the next world?</q> questioned
Benson.</p>

<p><q>Yes.</q></p>

<p><q>I sometimes give a good deal of thought to
it,</q> Jack confessed.</p>

<p><q>Then where do you expect to go, when the
time comes?</q></p>

<p><q>Why?</q></p>

<p><q>After the whoppers you told that officer?</q></p>

<p><q>I didn't tell him even a single tiny fib,</q> protested
Jack, indignantly.</p>

<p><q>Oh, you George Washington!</q> choked Eph
Somers.</p>

<p><q>Well, I didn't,</q> insisted Jack. <q>Now, just
stop and think. Weren't we all three discussing
hazing?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes.</q></p>

<p><q>Then that part of what I told the officer was
straight. Now, Eph, when we saw that first
cadet come along, didn't I suggest to you to ask
him about hazing?</q></p>

<p><q>Ye-es,</q> admitted Somers, thoughtfully.</p>

<p><q>Then, didn't the cadet midshipmen offer to
<pb n="132" /><anchor id="Pg132" />
show us all about hazing pranks, and didn't they
do it?</q></p>

<p><q>Well, rather,</q> muttered Eph.</p>

<p><q>Now, young man, that's all I told the officer,
except that we enjoyed our entertainment
greatly.</q></p>

<p><q><hi rend="font-style: italic">Did</hi> we enjoy it, though?</q> demanded Eph
Somers, bridling up.</p>

<p><q>I did,</q> replied Jack, <q>and I spoke for myself.
I enjoyed it as I would enjoy almost any
new experience.</q></p>

<p><q>So did I,</q> added Hal, warmly. <q>It was
rough&mdash;mighty rough&mdash;but now I know what an
Annapolis hazing is like, and I'm glad I do.</q></p>

<p><q>Well, I want to tell you I didn't enjoy it,</q>
blazed Eph. <q>It was a mighty cheeky&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Then why did you let the officer imagine you
enjoyed it?</q> taunted Jack.</p>

<p>While Hal put in, slyly:</p>

<p><q>Eph, you're too quick to talk about others
fibbing. From the evidence just put in, it's
evident that you're the only one of the three who
fibbed any. Won't you please walk on the
other side of the road? I never did like to
travel with liars.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, you go to Jericho!</q> flared Eph. But,
as he walked along, he blinked a good deal, and
did some hard thinking.</p>

<p><q>I'll tell you,</q> broke out Jack, suddenly,
<pb n="133" /><anchor id="Pg133" />
<q>who thanks us even more than the cadets themselves
do.</q></p>

<p><q>Who?</q> queried Hal.</p>

<p><q>That officer who caught the crowd at it.</q></p>

<p><q>Do you think he cared?</q></p>

<p><q>Of course he did,</q> said Jack, positively.
<q>He'd rather have gone hungry for a couple of
days than have to report that bunch for
hazing.</q></p>

<p><q>Then why was he so infernally stiff with
the young men?</q></p>

<p><q>He had to be; that's the answer. That officer,
like every other officer of the Navy detailed
here, is sworn to do his full duty. So he has to
enforce the regulations. But don't you suppose,
fellows, that officer was hazed, and did
some hazing on his own account, when he was
a cadet midshipman here years ago? Of course!
And that's why the officer didn't question us any
more closely than he did. He was afraid he
might stumble on something that would oblige
him to report the whole crowd for hazing. <hi rend="font-style: italic">He</hi>
didn't want to do it. That officer, I'm certain,
knew that, if he questioned us too closely, he'd
find a lot more beneath the surface that he
simply didn't want to dig up.</q></p>

<p><q>Would you have told the truth, if he had
questioned you searchingly, and pinned you
right down?</q> demanded Eph Somers.</p>

<p><pb n="134" /><anchor id="Pg134" />
<q>Of course I would,</q> Jack replied, soberly.
<q>I'm no liar. But I feel deeply grateful to that
officer for not being keener.</q></p>

<p>Before nine o'clock the next morning news of
the night's doings back of barracks had spread
through the entire corps of cadet midshipmen.</p>

<p>With these young men of the Navy there was
but one opinion of the submarine boys&mdash;that
they were trumps, wholly of the right sort.</p>

<p>As a result, Jack, Hal and Eph had hundreds
of new friends among those who will officer the
Navy of the morrow.</p>

<p>Not so bad, even just as a stroke of business!</p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XIII: READY FOR THE SEA CRUISE</head>

<p>
For the next ten days things moved along
without much excitement for the submarine
boys.</p>

<p>During that time they had an average of four
sections a day of cadet midshipmen to instruct
in the workings of the Pollard type of submarine
torpedo boat.</p>

<p>During the last few days short cruises were
taken on the Severn River, in order that the
middies might practise at running the motors
and handling the craft. At such times one
<pb n="135" /><anchor id="Pg135" />
squad of midshipmen would be on duty in the
engine room, another in the conning tower and
on the platform deck.</p>

<p>Of course, when the midshipmen handled the
<q>Farnum,</q> under command of a Navy officer,
the submarine boys had but little more to do
than to be on board. Certainly they were not
overworked. Yet all three were doing fine
work for their employers in making the Navy
officers of the future like the Pollard type of
craft.</p>

<p>After waiting a few days Jack Benson reported
to the Annapolis police his experience
with the mulatto <q>guide.</q> The police thought
they recognized the fellow, from the description,
and did their best to find him. The mulatto,
however, seemed to have disappeared from that
part of the country.</p>

<p>There came a Friday afternoon when, as the
last detachment of middies filed over the side
into the waiting cutter, Lieutenant Commander
Mayhew announced:</p>

<p><q>This, Mr. Benson, completes the instruction
desired in the Basin and in the river. To-morrow
and Sunday you will have for rest. On
Monday, at 10 <hi rend="font-variant: small-caps">a.m.</hi>, a section will report aboard
for the first trip out to sea. Then you will show
our young men how the boat dives, and how she
is run under water. As none of our cadet midshipmen
<pb n="136" /><anchor id="Pg136" />
have ever been below in a submarine
before, you will be sure of having eager
students.</q></p>

<p><q>And perhaps some nervous ones,</q> smiled
Skipper Jack.</p>

<p><q>Possibly,</q> assented Mr. Mayhew. <q>I doubt
it, though. Nervousness is not a marked trait
of any young man who has been long enrolled at
the Naval Academy.</q></p>

<p><q>Can we have a slight favor done us, Mr.
Mayhew?</q> Jack asked.</p>

<p><q>Any reasonable favor, of course.</q></p>

<p><q>Then, sir, we'd like to spend a little time
ashore, as we've been confined so long aboard.
If I lock up everything tight on the boat until
Sunday night, may we know that the 'Farnum'
will be under the protection of the marine
guard?</q></p>

<p><q>I feel that there will not be the slightest difficulty
in promising you that,</q> replied Mr. Mayhew.
<q>I will telephone the proper authorities
about it as soon as I go on shore.</q></p>

<p>All hands on board were pleased over the
prospect of going ashore, with the exception of
Sam Truax.</p>

<p><q>You don't need any guard on the boat,</q> he
protested. <q>I don't want to go ashore. Leave
me here and I'll be all the guard necessary.</q></p>

<p><q>We're all going ashore,</q> Jack replied.</p>

<p><pb n="137" /><anchor id="Pg137" />
<q>But I haven't any money to spend ashore,</q>
objected Truax.</p>

<p><q>I'll let you have ten dollars on account,
then,</q> replied Jack, who was well supplied with
money, thanks to a draft received from Jacob
Farnum.</p>

<p><q>I don't want to go ashore, anyway.</q></p>

<p><q>I'm sorry, Truax, but it doesn't really make
any difference. The boat will be closed up
tight, and there wouldn't be any place for you
to stay, except on the platform deck.</q></p>

<p><q>You're not treating me fairly,</q> protested
Sam Truax, indignantly.</p>

<p><q>I'm sorry you think so. Still, if you're not
satisfied, all I can do is to pay you off to date.
Then you can go where you please.</q></p>

<p><q>I'm here by David Pollard's order. Do you
forget that?</q></p>

<p><q>He sent you along to us, true,</q> admitted
Jack, <q>but I have instructions from Mr. Farnum
to dismiss anyone whose work on board I
don't like. Now, Truax, you're a competent
enough man in the engine room, and there's no
sense in having to let you go. You're well paid,
and can afford the time on shore. I wouldn't
make any more fuss about this, but do as the
rest of us are going to do.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, I'll have to, then, since you're boss
here,</q> grumbled Truax, sulkily.</p>

<p><pb n="138" /><anchor id="Pg138" />
<q>I don't want to make it felt too much that I
<hi rend="font-style: italic">am</hi> boss here,</q> Jack retorted, mildly. <q>At the
same time, though, I'm held responsible, and
so I suppose I'll have to have things done the
way that seems best to me.</q></p>

<p>Sam Truax turned to get his satchel. The
instant his back was turned on the young commander
Sam's face was a study in ugliness.</p>

<p><q>Oh, I'll take this all out of you,</q> muttered
the fellow to himself. <q>I don't believe, Jack
Benson, you'll go on the cruising next week.
If you do, you won't be much good, anyway!</q></p>

<p>Ten minutes later a shore boat landed the
entire party from the submarine craft.</p>

<p><q>Going with the rest of us, Truax?</q> inquired
Jack, pleasantly.</p>

<p><q>No; I'm going to find a boarding-house.
That will be cheaper than the hotel.</q></p>

<p>So the other four kept straight on to the
Maryland House, giving very little more thought
to the sulky one.</p>

<p>It was not until after supper that Eph turned
the talk back to Sam Truax.</p>

<p><q>I don't like the fellow, at all,</q> declared
young Somers. <q>He always wants to be left
alone in the engine room, for one thing.</q></p>

<p><q>And I've made it my business, regular,</q>
added Williamson, the machinist, <q>to see that
he doesn't have his wish.</q></p>

<p><pb n="139" /><anchor id="Pg139" />
<q>He's always sulky, and kicking about everything,</q>
added Eph. <q>I may be wrong, but I
can't get it out of my head that the fellow came
aboard on purpose to be a trouble-maker.</q></p>

<p><q>Why, what object could he have in that?</q>
asked Captain Jack.</p>

<p><q>Blessed if I know,</q> replied Eph. <q>But
that's the way I size the fellow up. Now, take
that time you were knocked senseless, back in
Dunhaven. Who could have done that? The
more I think about Sam Truax, the more I suspect
him as the fellow who stretched you out.</q></p>

<p><q>Again, what object could he have?</q> inquired
Benson.</p>

<p><q>Blessed if I know. What object could anyone
have in such a trick against you? It was a
state prison job, if the fellow had been caught
at the time.</q></p>

<p><q>Well, there's one thing Truax was innocent
of, anyway,</q> laughed Captain Jack. <q>He
didn't have any hand in the way I was tricked
and robbed by the mulatto.</q></p>

<p><q>Blamed if I'm so sure he didn't have a hand
in that, too,</q> contended Eph Somers, stubbornly.</p>

<p><q>Yet Mr. Pollard recommended him,</q> urged
Jack.</p>

<p><q>Yes, and a fine fellow Dave Pollard is&mdash;true
as steel,</q> put in Hal Hastings, quietly. <q>Yet
<pb n="140" /><anchor id="Pg140" />
you know what a dreamer he is. Always has his
head in the air and his thoughts among the stars.
He'd as like as not take a fellow like Truax on
the fellow's own say-so, and never think of looking
him up.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, we've no reason to think Truax isn't
honest enough,</q> contended Jack Benson.
<q>He's certainly a fine workman. As to his
being sulky, you know well enough that's a common
fault among men who spend their lives listening
to the noise of great engines. A man
who can't make himself heard over the noise of
a big engine hasn't much encouragement to talk.
Now, a man who can't find much chance to talk
becomes sulky a good many times out of ten.</q></p>

<p><q>We'll have trouble with that fellow, Truax,
yet,</q> muttered Eph.</p>

<p><q>Oh, I hope not,</q> Jack answered, then added,
significantly:</p>

<p><q>If he <hi rend="font-style: italic">does</hi> start any trouble he may find that
he has been trifling with the wrong crowd!</q></p>

<p>Very little more thought was given to the
sulky one. The submarine boys and their companion,
Williamson, enjoyed Saturday and
Sunday ashore.</p>

<p>All of them might have felt disturbed, however,
had they known of one thing that happened.</p>

<p>The naval machinists aboard the first submarine
<pb n="141" /><anchor id="Pg141" />
boat, the <q>Pollard,</q> now owned by the
United States Government, found something
slightly out of order with the <q>Pollard's</q>
engine that they did not know exactly how to
remedy.</p>

<p>Sam Truax, hanging around the Basin that
Sunday forenoon, was called upon. He gladly
responded to the call for help. For four hours
he toiled along in the <q>Pollard's</q> engine room.
Much of that time he spent there alone.</p>

<p>The job done, at last, Truax quietly received
the thanks of the naval machinists and went
ashore again.</p>

<p>Yet, as he turned and walked toward the main
gate of the grounds, there was a smile on Sam
Truax's face that was little short of diabolical.</p>

<p><q>Now, if I can only get the same chance at the
'Farnum's' engines!</q> he muttered, to himself.
<q>If I can, I think Mr. Jack Benson will find himself
out of favor with his company, for his company
will be out of favor with the Navy Department
at Washington!</q></p>
</div>

<div>
<pb n="142" /><anchor id="Pg142" />
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XIV: THE <q>POLLARD</q> GOES LAME</head>

<p>
<q>The submarine boats when out in the
Bay will keep abreast of the 'Hudson,'
two hundred yards off on either
beam. The speed will be fourteen knots when
the signal is given for full speed. The general
course, after leaving the mouth of the Bay will
be East.</q></p>

<p>Such were the instructions called from the
rail of the gunboat, through a megaphone,
Monday forenoon.</p>

<p>On each of the submarine craft were sixteen
cadet midshipmen, out for actual practice in
handling a submarine in diving and in running
under water. On board the gunboat were eighty
more cadets. Thus a large class of the young
men were to receive instruction during the
cruise, for the detachments aboard the submarines
could be changed at the pleasure of
Lieutenant Commander Mayhew, who was in
charge of the cruise.</p>

<p>Captain Jack, his own hands on the conning
tower wheel, ran the <q>Farnum</q> out into the
river, first of all. Then the <q>Pollard,</q> under
command of a naval officer, followed. Both
<pb n="143" /><anchor id="Pg143" />
backed water, then waited for the <q>Hudson</q> to
come out, for the gunboat was to lead the way
until the Bay was reached. Then the formation
ordered would be followed.</p>

<p>Though it was nearing the first of November,
the day, near land, was ideally soft and balmy.
As many of the midshipmen as could sought the
platform deck of the <q>Farnum.</q> Those, however,
who belonged to the engineer division were
obliged to spend the greater part of their time
below.</p>

<p>By the time that the three craft were in the
ordered formation, abreast, and well started
down Chesapeake Bay, the parent vessel signaled
that the designated cadets were to take
charge of the handling of the submarine
boats.</p>

<p>Jack Benson cheerfully relinquished the wheel
to Cadet Midshipman Merriam, and stepped out
on to the platform deck. At need, as in case of
accident or misunderstanding of signals or
orders, Benson was still in command. While all
ran smoothly, however, Mr. Merriam enjoyed
command.</p>

<p>Hal, being likewise relieved in the engine
room, came also out on deck.</p>

<p><q>Where's Eph?</q> inquired the young commander
of the <q>Farnum.</q></p>

<p><q>In the engine room,</q> smiled Hal. <q>He said
<pb n="144" /><anchor id="Pg144" />
I could leave, if I wanted, but that he'd be
hanged if he'd let Truax out of his sight while
I was away.</q></p>

<p><q>Eph seems to have Truax on the brain,</q>
laughed Jack.</p>

<p><q>Well, Truax <hi rend="font-style: italic">is</hi> a queer and surly one,</q> Hal
admitted. <q>This morning he gives one the impression
of peeking over his shoulder all the
time to see whether he's being watched.</q></p>

<p><q>So Eph means to humor him by watching
him, eh?</q> asked Jack.</p>

<p>Hal laughed quietly.</p>

<p>Some of the cadets who were familiar with
the landmarks of Chesapeake Bay pointed out
many of the localities and sights to the two
submarine boys.</p>

<p>At last, however, Eph was obliged to call for
Hal.</p>

<p><q>You know, Hal, old fellow, I've got to look
out for the feeding of a lot of boarders to-day,</q>
complained Eph, whimsically.</p>

<p>This task of Eph's took time, though it was
not a hard one. The food for the cadets had
been sent aboard. Eph had to make coffee and
heat soup. For the rest, cold food had to do.
The young men, on this trip, were required to
wait on themselves.</p>

<p>Hal found Sam Truax sitting moodily in a
corner of the engine room, though there was
<pb n="145" /><anchor id="Pg145" />
something about the fellow's appearance that
suggested the watchfulness of a cat.</p>

<p><q>Why don't you go on deck a while, Truax?</q>
asked Hal, kindly.</p>

<p><q>Don't want to,</q> snapped the fellow, irritably.
So Hal turned his back on the man.</p>

<p><q>Doesn't that part need loosening up a bit,
sir?</q> asked the cadet in charge of the engineer
division.</p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> replied Hastings, after watching a
moment; <q>it does.</q></p>

<p><q>I'll do it, then,</q> proposed Truax, roughly.
He attempted to crowd his way past Hal, but the
latter refused to be crowded, and stood his
ground until the midshipman passed him a
wrench. Then Hastings loosened up the part.</p>

<p><q>You might let me do a little something,</q>
growled Sam Truax, in a tone intentionally
offensive.</p>

<p><q>Don't forget, Truax, that I'm in command
in this department,</q> retorted Hal, in a quieter
tone than usual, though with a direct, steady
look that made Sam Truax turn white with
repressed wrath.</p>

<p><q>You won't let me forget it, will you?</q>
snarled the fellow.</p>

<p><q>No; for I don't want you to forget it, and
least of all on this cruise,</q> responded Hal Hastings.</p>

<p><pb n="146" /><anchor id="Pg146" />
<q>You don't give me any chance to&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Silence!</q> ordered Hal, taking a step toward
him.</p>

<p>Sam Truax opened his mouth to make some
retort, then wisely changed his mind, dropping
back into his former seat.</p>

<p>The noon meal was served to all hands. By
the time it was well over the mouth of the Bay
was in sight, the broad Atlantic rolling in
beyond.</p>

<p>The sea, when reached, proved to be almost
smooth. It was ideal weather for such a cruise.</p>

<p>Then straight East, for an hour they went,
getting well out of the path of coasting vessels.</p>

<p><q>Hullo! What in blazes does that mean?</q>
suddenly demanded Hal, pointing astern at
starboard.</p>

<p>The <q>Pollard</q> lay tossing gently on the
water, making no headway. Hardly ten seconds
later the <q>Hudson</q> signaled a halt.</p>

<p>Then followed some rapid signaling between
the gunboat and the submarine that had
stopped. There was some break in the <q>Pollard's</q>
machinery, but the cause had not yet
been determined.</p>

<p><q>Blazes!</q> muttered Jack, uneasily. <q>It
couldn't have happened at a worse time. This
looks bad for our firm, Hal!</q></p>

<p>The <q>Farnum</q> now lay to, as did the <q>Hudson,</q>
<pb n="147" /><anchor id="Pg147" />
for the officer in command of the <q>Pollard</q>
signaled that his machinists were making
a rapid but thorough investigation of the unfortunate
submarine's engines.</p>

<p>Finally, a cutter put off from the <q>Hudson,</q>
with a cadet midshipman in charge. The small
boat came over alongside, and the midshipman
called up:</p>

<p><q>The lieutenant commander's compliments,
and will Mr. Benson detail Mr. Hastings to go
over to the 'Pollard' and assist?</q></p>

<p><q>My compliments to the lieutenant commander,</q>
Jack replied. <q>And be good enough
to report to him, please, that Mr. Hastings and
I will both go.</q></p>

<p><q>My orders, sir, are to convey you to the
'Pollard' before reporting back to the parent
vessel,</q> replied the midshipman.</p>

<p>The cutter came alongside, taking off the two
submarine boys, while Eph Somers devoted himself
to watching Sam Truax as a bloodhound
might have hung to a trail.</p>

<p>Arrived on board the good, old, familiar
<q>Pollard,</q> Jack and Hal hurried below.</p>

<p><q>The machinery is too hot to handle, now,
sir,</q> reported one of the naval machinists, <q>but
it looks as though something was wrong right in
there</q>&mdash;pointing.</p>

<p><q>Put one of the electric fans at work there, at
<pb n="148" /><anchor id="Pg148" />
once,</q> directed Hal. <q>Then things ought to be
cool enough in half an hour, to make an examination
possible.</q></p>

<p>After seeing this done, the two submarine boys
left for the platform deck, for the engine room
was both hot and crowded.</p>

<p><q>How long is it going to take you, Mr. Hastings?</q>
asked the naval officer in command of the
<q>Pollard.</q></p>

<p><q>Half an hour to get the parts cool enough
to examine, but I can't say, sir, how long the
examination and repairs will take.</q></p>

<p>So the officer in command signaled what
proved to be vague and unsatisfactory information
to Lieutenant Commander Mayhew.</p>

<p><q>This is a bad time to have this sort of thing
happen,</q> observed the naval officer in charge.</p>

<p><q>A mighty bad time, sir,</q> Jack murmured.</p>

<p><q>And the engines of the 'Pollard' were supposed
to be in first-class condition.</q></p>

<p><q>They <hi rend="font-style: italic">were</hi> in A-1 condition, when the boat
was turned over to the Navy,</q> Jack responded.</p>

<p><q>Do you imagine, then, Mr. Benson, that
some of the naval machinists have been careless
or incompetent?</q></p>

<p><q>Why, that would be a wild guess to make,
sir, when one remembers what high rank your
naval machinists take in their work,</q> Jack
Benson replied.</p>

<p><pb n="149" /><anchor id="Pg149" />
<q>And this boat was sold to the Navy with the
strongest guarantee for the engines,</q> pursued
the officer in charge.</p>

<p>Jack and Hal were both worried. The sudden
break had a bad look for the Pollard boats,
in the success of which these submarine boys
were most vitally interested.</p>

<p>At last, from below, the suspected parts of
the engine were reported to be cool enough for
examination. The naval officer in charge followed
Jack and Hal below.</p>

<p>Taking off his uniform blouse and rolling up
his sleeves, Hal sailed in vigorously to locate the
fault. Machinists and cadets stood about, passing
him the tools he needed, and helping him
when required.</p>

<p>At last, after disconnecting some parts, Hal
drew out a long, slender brass piston.</p>

<p>As he held it up young Hastings's face went
as white as chalk.</p>

<p><q>Do you see this?</q> he demanded, hoarsely.</p>

<p><q>Filed, crazily, and it also looks as though the
inner end had been heated and tampered with,</q>
gasped Jack Benson.</p>

<p><q>This, sir,</q> complained Hal, turning around
to face the naval officer in charge, <q>looks like a
direct attempt to tamper with and damage the
engine. Someone has done this deliberately,
sir. It only remains to find the culprit.</q></p>

<p><pb n="150" /><anchor id="Pg150" />
<q>Then we'll find out,</q> retorted the naval officer,
<q>if it takes a court of inquiry and a court
martial to do it. But are you sure of your
charge, Mr. Hastings?</q></p>

<p><q>Am I sure?</q> repeated Hal, all the soul of
the young engineer swelling to the surface.
<q>Take this piston, sir, and examine it. Could
such a job have been done, unless by sheer
design and intent?</q></p>

<p><q>Will the lieutenant permit me to speak?</q>
asked the senior machinist, taking a step forward
and saluting.</p>

<p><q>Yes; go ahead.</q></p>

<p><q>Yesterday morning, sir,</q> continued the
senior machinist, <q>we thought the engines
needed some overhauling by someone more accustomed
to them than we were. We saw one
of the machinists of the 'Farnum,' sir, hanging
about on shore. So we invited him aboard and
asked him to look the engines over.</q></p>

<p><q>Describe the man,</q> begged Jack.</p>

<p>The senior machinist gave a description that
instantly denoted Sam Truax as the man in
question.</p>

<p><q>Did you leave him alone in here, at any
time?</q> demanded Hal.</p>

<p><q>Let me see. Why, yes, sir. The man must
have been alone in here some three-quarters of
an hour.</q></p>

<p><pb n="151" /><anchor id="Pg151" />
Jack and Hal exchanged swift glances.</p>

<p>There seemed, now, very little need of carrying
the investigation further.</p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XV: ANOTHER TURN AT HARD LUCK</head>

<p>
When he could trust himself to speak
Hal Hastings addressed the naval
officer.</p>

<p><q>I think Mr. Benson and myself understand,
sir, how it happened that this damage was done.
There are extra parts in the repair kit. In
twenty minutes, sir, I think we can have the
engines running smoothly once more.</q></p>

<p>The naval officer was wise enough not to press
the questioning further just then. Instead, he
went on deck.</p>

<p>Working like beavers, and with the assistance
of others standing about, Jack and Hal had the
piston replaced and all the other parts in place
within fifteen minutes. Then, once more, Hal
turned on the gasoline, set the ignition, and
watched.</p>

<p>The engine ran as smoothly as ever.</p>

<p><q>There won't be any more trouble, unless
someone is turned loose here with files and a
blast lamp,</q> pronounced Hal. Then he and
<pb n="152" /><anchor id="Pg152" />
his chum sought the deck, to report to the officer
in charge.</p>

<p><q>You think we're in running order, now?</q>
asked that officer.</p>

<p><q>If you give the speed-ahead signal, sir, I
think you'll feel as though you had a live engine
under your deck,</q> Hal assured him.</p>

<p>The signal was given, the <q>Pollard</q> immediately
responding. She cut a wide circle, at
good speed, returning to her former position,
where the propellers were stopped.</p>

<p><q>You suspect your own machinist, who was
aboard?</q> asked the naval officer, in a low tone,
of the submarine boys.</p>

<p><q>If you'll pardon our not answering directly,
sir,</q> Captain Jack replied, <q>we want to have
more than suspicions before we make a very
energetic report on this strange accident. But
we shall not be asleep, sir, in the matter of finding
out. Then we shall make a full report to
Mr. Mayhew.</q></p>

<p><q>Success to you&mdash;and vigilance!</q> muttered
the naval officer.</p>

<p>The gunboat's cutter came alongside, transferring
Jack and Hal back to the <q>Farnum.</q></p>

<p>Hal went directly below to the engine room.</p>

<p><q>You fixed the trouble with the 'Pollard'?</q>
demanded Eph Somers, eagerly.</p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> Hal admitted.</p>

<p><pb n="153" /><anchor id="Pg153" />
<q>What was wrong?</q></p>

<p><q>Why, I don't know as I'd want to commit
myself in too offhand a way,</q> replied Hal,
slowly, as though thinking.</p>

<p><q>What appeared to be at the bottom of the
trouble?</q></p>

<p><q>Why, it <hi rend="font-style: italic">may</hi> have been that one of the naval
machinists, not understanding our engines any
too well, allowed one of the pistons to get overheated,
and then resorted to filing,</q> Hal replied.</p>

<p><q>What? Overheat a piston, and then try to
correct it with a file?</q> cried young Somers, disgustedly.
<q>The crazy blacksmith! He ought
to be set to shoeing snails&mdash;that's all he's fit
for.</q></p>

<p><q>It looks that way,</q> Hal assented, smiling.</p>

<p>Artful, clever Hal! He had carried it all off
so coolly and naturally that Sam Truax, who
had been closely studying Hastings's face from
the background, was wholly deceived.</p>

<p><q>This fellow, Hastings, isn't as smart as I had
thought him,</q> muttered Truax, to himself.</p>

<p>The interrupted cruise now proceeded, the
parent vessel signaling for a temporary speed
of sixteen knots in order to make up for lost
time.</p>

<p>Twenty minutes later came the signal from
the <q>Hudson:</q></p>

<p><q>At the command, the submarines will dash
<pb n="154" /><anchor id="Pg154" />
ahead at full speed, each making its best time.
During this trial, which will end at the firing of
a gun from the parent vessel, all cadets will be
on deck.</q></p>

<p>Word was immediately passed below, and all
the cadets of the engineer division came
tumbling up.</p>

<p>To these, who had been in the engine room
constantly for hours, the cool wind blowing
across the deck was highly agreeable.</p>

<p>For the speed dash Captain Jack Benson had
again taken command. He passed word below
to Eph Somers to take the wheel in the conning
tower.</p>

<p>Eph, therefore, came up with the last of the
cadets from below. In the excitement of the
pending race it had not been noticed by any of
the submarine boys that Williamson was already
on deck, aft. That left Sam Truax below in sole
possession of the boat's engine quarters.</p>

<p>The gunboat now fell a little behind, leaving
the two submarines some four hundred yards
apart, but as nearly as possible on a line.</p>

<p><q>Look at the crowd over on the 'Pollard's'
decks,</q> muttered Hal. <q>They're all Navy
folks over there.</q></p>

<p><q>And they mean to beat such plain 'dubs' as
they must consider us,</q> laughed Captain Jack,
in an undertone.</p>

<p><pb n="155" /><anchor id="Pg155" />
<q>Will they beat us, though?</q> grinned Hal
Hastings. <q>You and I, Jack, happen to know
that the 'Farnum' is a bit the faster boat by
rights.</q></p>

<p>Suddenly the signal broke out from the gunboat.</p>

<p><q>Race her, Eph!</q> shouted Captain Jack.</p>

<p><q>Aye, aye, sir!</q></p>

<p>Eph Somers's right hand caught at the speed
signals beside the wheel. He called for all
speed, the bell jangling merrily in the engine
room.</p>

<p>A little cheer of excitement went up from the
cadets aboard the <q>Farnum</q> as that craft shot
ahead over the waters. The cadets were catching
the thrill of what was virtually a race. At
the same time, though, these midshipmen could
not help feeling a good deal of interest in the
success of the <q>Pollard,</q> which was manned
wholly by representatives of the Navy.</p>

<p>In the first three minutes the <q>Farnum</q> stole
gradually, though slowly, ahead of the <q>Pollard.</q>
Then, to the disgust of all three of the
submarine boys, the other craft was seen to be
gaining. Before long the <q>Pollard</q> had the
lead, and looked likely to increase it. Already
gleeful cheers were rising from the all-Navy
crowd on the deck of the other submarine.</p>

<p>Behind the racers sped the <q>Hudson,</q> keeping
<pb n="156" /><anchor id="Pg156" />
just far enough behind to be able to observe
everything without interfering with either
torpedo craft.</p>

<p>From looking at the <q>Pollard</q> Captain Jack
glanced down at the water. His own boat's
bows seemed to be cutting the water at a fast
gait. The young skipper, knowing what he
knew about both boats, could not understand this
losing to the other craft.</p>

<p><q>The Navy men must know a few tricks with
engines that we haven't guessed,</q> he observed,
anxiously, to young Hastings.</p>

<p><q>I don't know what it can be, then,</q> murmured
Hal, uneasily. <q>There aren't so confusingly
many parts to a six-cylinder gasoline
motor. They aren't hard engines to run. More
depends on the engine itself than on the
engineer.</q></p>

<p><q>But look over there,</q> returned Captain
Jack Benson. <q>You see the 'Pollard' taking
the wind out of our teeth, don't you?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> Hal admitted, looking more puzzled.</p>

<p><q>Do you think our engines are doing the top-notch
of their best?</q> asked Benson.</p>

<p><q>Yes; for Williamson is a crackerjack
machinist. He knows our engines as well as
any man alive could do.</q></p>

<p><q>Do you think it would do any good for you
to go below, Hal?</q></p>

<p><pb n="157" /><anchor id="Pg157" />
<q>I will, if you say so,</q> offered Hastings.
<q>Yet there's another side to it.</q></p>

<p><q>What?</q></p>

<p><q>Williamson might get it into his head that
I went below because I thought he was making
a muddle of the speed. As a matter of fact, he
knows every blessed thing I do about our motors,
and Williamson is loyal to the core.</q></p>

<p><q>I know,</q> nodded Captain Jack. <q>I'd hate to
hurt a fine fellow's feelings. Yet&mdash;confound it,
I <hi rend="font-style: italic">do</hi> want to win this burst of speed. It means,
perhaps, the quick sale of this boat to the Navy.
If we're beaten it means, to the Secretary of the
Navy, that he already has our best boat, and he
might not see the need of buying the 'Farnum'
at all.</q></p>

<p><q>Give Williamson two or three minutes
more,</q> begged Hal. <q>You might tell Eph,
though, to repeat, and repeat, the signal for top
speed. That'll show Williamson we're losing.</q></p>

<p>Jack Benson walked to the conning tower, instructing
Eph Somers in a low tone.</p>

<p><q>I've signaled twice, since the first time,</q>
Eph replied. <q>But here goes some more.</q></p>

<p><q>I wonder what's going wrong with our engines,
then,</q> muttered Captain Jack, uneasily.</p>

<p><q>It ain't in careless steering, anyway,</q>
grumbled Eph. <q>I'm going as straight as a
chalk line.</q></p>

<p><pb n="158" /><anchor id="Pg158" />
<q>I noticed that,</q> Captain Jack admitted.</p>

<p>He continued to look worried, for, by this
time, the <q>Pollard</q> was at least a good two
hundred and fifty yards to the good in the lead.</p>

<p><q>I'm afraid,</q> muttered Hal, rejoining Benson,
<q>that I'll simply have to go below.</q></p>

<p><q>I'm afraid so,</q> nodded Jack. <q>We simply
can't afford to lose this or any other race to the
'Pollard.'</q></p>

<p><q>Williamson knows that fully as well as we
do, though,</q> Hal Hastings went on. <q>And
Williamson&mdash;</q></p>

<p>Of a sudden Hal stopped short. He half
staggered, clutching at a rail, while his eyes
stared and his lips twitched.</p>

<p><q>Why&mdash;why&mdash;there's Williamson&mdash;aft on the
deck!</q> muttered Hastings.</p>

<p><q>What!</q></p>

<p>Jack, too, wheeled like a flash. Back there
in a crowd of cadets stood the machinist upon
whom the submarine boys were depending for
the best showing that the <q>Farnum</q> could
make.</p>

<p><q>Williamson up here!</q> gasped Hal. <q>And&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>That fellow, Truax, all alone with the
motors!</q> hissed Captain Jack. Then, after a
second or two of startled silence:</p>

<p><q>Come on, Hal!</q></p>

<p><pb n="159" /><anchor id="Pg159" />
The naval cadets were too much absorbed in
watching the race to have overheard anything.
Williamson, too, standing at the rail, looking out
over the water, had not yet discovered that Hal
Hastings was up from the engine room.</p>

<p>Jack Benson stole below on tip-toe, though
with the machinery running so much stealth was
not necessary. Right behind him followed Hal.</p>

<p>As the two gained the doorway of the engine
room Sam Truax had his back turned to them,
and so did not note the sudden watchers.</p>

<p>There was a smile of malicious triumph on
Truax's face as he turned a lever a little way
over, thus decreasing the ignition power of the
motors.</p>

<p>Both Jack and Hal could see that the gasoline
flow had been turned on nearly to the full
capacity. It was the poor ignition work that
was making the motors respond so badly. A
little less, and a little less, of the electric spark
that burned the gasoline and air mixture&mdash;that
was the secret of the gradually decreasing
speed, while all the time it looked as though the
<q>Farnum</q> was doing her level best to win the
race.</p>

<p>Whistling, as he bent over, Sam Truax caught
up a long, slender steel bar. With this he
stepped forward, intent upon his next wicked
step.</p>

<p><pb n="160" /><anchor id="Pg160" />
<q>Gracious! The scoundrel is going to run
that bar in between the moving parts of the
engine and bring about a break-down!</q>
quivered Hal.</p>

<p>Sam Truax stood watching for his chance to
thrust the steel bar in just where it would inflict
the most damage. Then raising the bar
quickly, he poised for the blow.</p>

<p><q>Stop that, you infernal sneak!</q> roared Jack
Benson, bounding into the engine room.</p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XVI: BRAVING NOTHING BUT A SNEAK</head>

<p>
<q>You&mdash;here?</q> hissed Truax, wheeling
about.</p>

<p>He had not had time to make the
thrust with the steel bar.</p>

<p>Instead, as he wheeled, he raised it above his
head, drawing back in an attitude of guard.</p>

<p>As he did so, a vile oath escaped Truax's lips.</p>

<p><q>Put that bar down!</q> commanded Jack
Benson, standing unflinchingly before the angry
rascal.</p>

<p><q>I'll put it down on your head, if you don't
get out of here!</q> snarled the wretch.</p>

<p><q>Put it down, and consider yourself off duty
here, for good and all,</q> insisted Jack.</p>

<p><pb n="161" /><anchor id="Pg161" />
<q>Are you going to get out of here, or shall
I brain you?</q> screamed Truax, his face working
in the height of his passion.</p>

<p><q>Neither,</q> retorted Captain Jack, coolly.
<q>I command here, and you know it. Put that
bar down, and leave the engine room.</q></p>

<p><q>Come and take the bar from me&mdash;if you
dare!</q> taunted the fellow, a more wicked gleam
flashing in his eyes.</p>

<p><q>Hal!</q> called Jack, sharply.</p>

<p><q>Aye!</q></p>

<p><q>Call two or three of the cadets down here.
Don't make any noise about it.</q></p>

<p>This order was called without Benson's turning
his head. He still stood facing the sneak
while Hal sped away.</p>

<p><q>Now, I've got you alone!</q> gloated Truax.
<q>I'll finish you!</q></p>

<p>A scornful smile curled Jack's lips as he gazed
steadily back at his foe.</p>

<p><q>Truax, you're a coward, as well as a sneak.</q></p>

<p><q>I am&mdash;eh?</q></p>

<p>With another nasty oath Truax stepped
quickly forward, the steel bar upraised.</p>

<p>He took but one step, however, for Captain
Jack Benson had not retreated an inch.</p>

<p>Nor did Jack have his hands up in an attitude
of guard.</p>

<p><q>Are you going to put that bar down,
<pb n="162" /><anchor id="Pg162" />
Truax?</q> the young skipper demanded, in a
voice that betrayed not a tremor.</p>

<p><q>No.</q></p>

<p><q>Then you'll have to make good in a moment,
for we're going to attack you.</q></p>

<p><q>Bah! I can stave in two or three heads before
any number of you could stop me,</q> sneered
the fellow, in an ugly voice.</p>

<p><q>You could, but you won't dare.</q></p>

<p><q>I won't?</q></p>

<p><q>Not you!</q></p>

<p>At that instant rapid steps were heard. Hal
Hastings returned with three of the midshipmen,
behind them Williamson trying to crowd
his way into the scene.</p>

<p><q>Just tell us what you want, Mr. Benson,</q>
proposed Cadet Merriam, amiably.</p>

<p><q>This fellow has been 'doping' our engines,</q>
announced Captain Jack. <q>And now he's
threatening to stand us off. We'll close in on
him from both sides. If he tries to use that
steel bar on any of us&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>If he does, he'll curse his unlucky star,</q>
declared Midshipman Merriam. <q>Come on,
gentlemen. We'll show him some of the Navy
football tactics!</q></p>

<p>The three midshipmen approached Truax
steadily from the right. Jack, Hal and Williamson
stepped in on the left.</p>

<p><pb n="163" /><anchor id="Pg163" />
With a yell like that of a maniac Sam Truax
swung the bar.</p>

<p>Having to watch both sides at once, however,
he made a fizzle of it. The bar came down, but
struck the floor.</p>

<p>Then, with a yell, the midshipmen leaped in on
one side, Jack leading the submarine forces on
the other. Mr. Merriam's trip and Jack's
smashing blow with the fist brought Truax down
to the floor in a heap.</p>

<p><q>Now, cart this human rubbish out of here!</q>
ordered Jack Benson, sternly. <q>Don't hit him&mdash;he
isn't man enough to be worthy of a blow!</q></p>

<p>Swooping down upon the prostrate one, Hal
and the midshipmen seized Sam Truax by his
arms and legs, carrying him bodily out of the
engine room.</p>

<p><q>Williamson,</q> commanded Captain Jack,
<q>stop the speed.</q></p>

<p><q>In the race, sir. We&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Stop the speed,</q> repeated Benson.</p>

<p><q>You're the captain,</q> admitted Williamson.
Grasping the twin levers of the two motors he
swung them backward.</p>

<p><q>Disregard any signal to go ahead until
we've had a chance to inspect the motors,</q>
added Captain Jack.</p>

<p>Then the submarine skipper darted out into
the cabin.</p>

<p><pb n="164" /><anchor id="Pg164" />
Sam Truax lay sprawling on the floor. Midshipman
Merriam, a most cheerful smile on his
face, sat across the fellow, while Hal and the
other two midshipmen stood by, looking on.</p>

<p><q>Hold him please, until I can have the wretch
taken care of,</q> requested Captain Jack, making
for the spiral stairway to the conning tower.</p>

<p>Just as the young skipper stepped out on deck
he heard the <q>Hudson's</q> bow-gun break out
sharply in the halting signal.</p>

<p>Taking a megaphone, Benson stood at the rail
until the gunboat ranged up alongside.</p>

<p><q>Have you broken down?</q> came the hail
from the gunboat's bridge.</p>

<p><q>I thought it best to stop speed, sir. We'll
have to look over our engines before it will be
safe to attempt any more speed work,</q> Captain
Jack answered. <q>I've caught a fellow tampering
with our machinery. We hold him a
prisoner, now. Can you take him off our
hands, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>One of <hi rend="font-style: italic">your own</hi> men?</q> came back the
question.</p>

<p><q>Of course, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>We'll send a marine guard to take him, on
your complaint, Mr. Benson.</q></p>

<p><q>Thank you, sir.</q></p>

<p>The gunboat's engines slowed down. Ere
long her port side gangway was lowered. Jack
<pb n="165" /><anchor id="Pg165" />
saw not only two marines and a corporal come
down over the side, but Lieutenant Commander
Mayhew appeared in person. That officer came
over in the cutter.</p>

<p><q>You've had treachery aboard, have you?</q>
asked the lieutenant commander, as he climbed
up over the side.</p>

<p><q>Rather. A new machinist, taken aboard
just before we sailed from Dunhaven. The
same fellow who must have played the trick on
the 'Pollard's' engines yesterday,</q> Benson
replied.</p>

<p><q>I'll be glad to have a fellow like that in irons
in the brig aboard the 'Hudson,' then,</q> muttered
Mr. Mayhew. <q>I couldn't understand,
Mr. Benson, how you were doing so badly in the
full speed ahead dash.</q></p>

<p><q>The prisoner below is the answer, sir,</q> Captain
Jack replied. He then led the corporal and
two marines below. The corporal produced a
pair of handcuffs, which he promptly snapped
over Truax's wrists.</p>

<p><q>You'll be sorry for this, one of these days,</q>
threatened Truax, with a snarl that showed his
teeth.</p>

<p><q>Some day, then, if you please, when I have
more leisure than I have now,</q> Jack retorted,
dryly. <q>This man is all yours, corporal.</q></p>

<p>Truax was foolish enough to try to hang back
<pb n="166" /><anchor id="Pg166" />
on his conductors. A slight jab through the
clothing from one of the marines' bayonets
caused the prisoner to stop that trick. He was
taken on deck and over the side.</p>

<p><q>Coxswain, return for me after you've taken
the prisoner to the 'Hudson,'</q> directed Mr.
Mayhew. <q>Now, Mr. Benson, I would like to
see what has been done to your engines.</q></p>

<p><q>That's just what I want to know, too,</q>
responded Jack.</p>

<p>They found Hal and Williamson hard at
work, inspecting the motors.</p>

<p><q>The ignition power was lowered, and that
may have been the most that the fellow did,</q>
said Hal. <q>Yet, at the same time, before putting
these engines to any severe test, I believe
they ought to be cooled and looked over.</q></p>

<p>Lieutenant Commander Mayhew frowned.</p>

<p><q>These delays eat up our practice cruise time
a whole lot,</q> he grumbled.</p>

<p><q>I'll put the engines through their paces, and
chance mischief having been done to them, if
you wish, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>No; that won't do either, Mr. Hastings,</q>
replied the naval officer. <q>This craft is private
property, and I have no right to give orders that
may damage private property. I'll hold the
fleet until you've had time to inspect your
engines properly. By that time, however, we'll
<pb n="167" /><anchor id="Pg167" />
have to put back to the coast for the night, for
our practice time will be gone.</q></p>

<p><q>In the days to follow, sir,</q> put in Benson,
earnestly, <q>I think we can more than make up
for this delay. We won't have the traitor
aboard after this.</q></p>

<p><q>What earthly object can the fellow have had
for wanting to damage your motors?</q> demanded
the naval officer, looking hopelessly
puzzled.</p>

<p><q>I can't even make a sane guess, sir,</q> Jack
Benson admitted.</p>

<p>An hour and a half later the <q>Hudson</q> and
the two submarines headed back for a safe little
bay on the coast. Here the three craft anchored
for the night.</p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XVII: THE EVIL GENIUS OF THE WATER FRONT</head>

<p>
It was nearly eight in the evening when the
three craft were snug at anchor.</p>

<p>The bay was a small one, hardly worthy
of the name. The only inhabited part of the
shore thereabouts consisted of the fishing village
known as Blair's Cove, a settlement containing
some forty houses.</p>

<p>Hardly had all been made snug aboard the
<pb n="168" /><anchor id="Pg168" />
<q>Farnum</q> when Jack, standing on the platform
deck after the cadets had been transferred
to the <q>Hudson</q> for the night, saw a small boat
heading out from shore.</p>

<p><q>Is that one of the new submarine crafts?</q>
hailed a voice from the bow of the boat.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir,</q> Jack answered, courteously.</p>

<p>No more was said until the boat had come up
alongside.</p>

<p><q>I thought maybe you'd be willing to let me
have a look over a craft of this sort,</q> said the
man in the bow. He appeared to be about forty
years of age, dark-haired and with a full, black
beard. The man was plainly though not
roughly dressed; evidently he was a man of some
education.</p>

<p><q>Why, I'm mighty sorry, sir,</q> Captain Jack
Benson replied. <q>But I'm afraid it will be impossible
to allow any strangers on board during
this cruise.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, I won't steal anything from your craft,</q>
answered the stranger, laughingly. <q>I won't
be inquisitive, either, or go poking into forbidden
corners. Who's your captain?</q></p>

<p><q>I am, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>Then you'll let me come aboard, just for a
look, won't you?</q> pleaded the stranger.</p>

<p>Such curiosity was natural. The man seemed
like a decent fellow. But Jack shook his head.</p>

<p><pb n="169" /><anchor id="Pg169" />
<q>I'm sorry, sir, but I'm positive our owners
wouldn't approve of our allowing any strangers
to come on board.</q></p>

<p><q>Had any trouble, so far, with strangers?</q>
asked the man.</p>

<p><q>I didn't say that,</q> Jack replied, evasively.
<q>But the construction of a submarine torpedo
boat is a secret. It is a general rule with our
owners that strangers shan't be allowed on
board, unless they're very especially vouched
for. Now, I hate to appear disobliging; yet, if
you've ever been employed by anyone else, you
will appreciate the need of obeying an owner's
orders.</q></p>

<p><q>You're under the orders of the boss of that
gunboat?</q> asked the stranger, pointing to the
<q>Hudson.</q></p>

<p><q>On this cruise, yes, sir,</q> Jack nodded.</p>

<p><q>Maybe, if I saw the fellow in command of
the gunboat, then he'd give me an order allowing
me to come on board.</q></p>

<p><q>I'm very certain the lieutenant commander
wouldn't do anything of the sort,</q> Benson
responded.</p>

<p>The stranger gave a comical sigh.</p>

<p><q>Then I'm afraid I don't see a submarine boat
to-night&mdash;that is, any more than I can see of it
now.</q></p>

<p><q>That's about the way it looks to me, also,</q>
<pb n="170" /><anchor id="Pg170" />
Jack answered, smiling. <q>Yet, believe me, I
hate awfully to seem discourteous about it.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, all right,</q> muttered the stranger, nodding
to the two boatmen, who had rowed him out
alongside.</p>

<p><q>Good!</q> grunted Eph. <q>I'm glad you
didn't let him on board, Captain. On this cruise
our luck doesn't seem to run with strangers.</q></p>

<p><q>It doesn't, for a fact,</q> laughed Jack Benson.</p>

<p><q>Hi, ho&mdash;ah, hum!</q> yawned young Somers,
stretching. <q>It will be mine for early bunk
to-night, I reckon.</q></p>

<p>At this moment a boat was observed rounding
the stern of the <q>Hudson.</q> It came up alongside,
landing a marine sentry.</p>

<p><q>Anybody on the 'Farnum' want to go ashore
to-night?</q> hailed a voice from the gunboat's
rail. <q>The shore boat will be ready in five
minutes.</q></p>

<p><q>I believe I would like to take just a run
through the village,</q> declared Jack, turning to
his chum. <q>Do you feel like a land-cruise with
me, Hal?</q></p>

<p><q>I think I'd better go,</q> laughed Hastings.
<q>You seem to get into trouble when you go
alone.</q></p>

<p><q>All right, then. And, Eph since you're so
sleepy, you can turn in as soon as you want.
The boat will be under sufficient protection,</q>
<pb n="171" /><anchor id="Pg171" />
Jack added, nodding toward the marine slowly
pacing the platform deck.</p>

<p>Williamson was called too, but declared that
he felt like turning in early. So, when the shore
boat came, it had but two passengers to take
from the submarine. There were a few shore-leave
men, however, from the gunboat.</p>

<p><q>This boat will return to the fleet, gentlemen,
every hour up to midnight,</q> stated the petty
officer in charge, as Jack and Hal stepped ashore
at a rickety little wharf.</p>

<p><q>Judging from what we can see of the town
from here, we'll be ready to go back long before
midnight,</q> Jack Benson laughingly told his
companion.</p>

<p><q>All I want is to shake some of the sea-roll
out of my gait,</q> nodded Hastings. <q>It surely
doesn't seem to be much of a town.</q></p>

<p>By way of public buildings there turned out
to be a church, locked and dark, a general store
and also a drug-store that contained the local
post-office. But the drug-store carried no ice
cream or soda, so the submarine boys turned
away.</p>

<p>There was one other <q>public</q> place that the
boys failed to discover at once. That was a low
groggery at the further end of the town. Here
two of the sailors who had come on shore leave
turned in for a drink or two. They found a
<pb n="172" /><anchor id="Pg172" />
suave, black-bearded man quite ready to buy
liquor for Uncle Sam's tars.</p>

<p>Three-quarters of an hour later Jack and Hal
felt they had seen about as much of the town as
they cared for, when a hailing voice stopped
them.</p>

<p><q>Finding it pretty dull, gentlemen?</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, good evening,</q> replied Captain Jack,
recognizing the bearded man whom he had
refused admittance to the <q>Farnum.</q></p>

<p><q>Pretty stupid town, isn't it, Captain?</q>
asked the stranger, holding out his hand, which
Jack Benson took.</p>

<p><q>As lively as we thought it would be,</q> Hal
rejoined. <q>We just came ashore to stretch ourselves
a bit. Thought we might lay a course to
an ice-cream soda, too, but failed.</q></p>

<p><q>These fishermen don't have such things,</q>
smiled the stranger. <q>They are content with
the bare necessities of life, with a little grog and
tobacco added. Speaking of grog, would you
care to try the best this town has, gentlemen?</q></p>

<p><q>Thank you,</q> Jack answered, politely.
<q>We've never either of us tasted the stuff, and
we don't care to begin.</q></p>

<p><q>Drop into the drug-store and have a cigar,
then?</q></p>

<p><q>We don't smoke, either, thank you,</q> came
from Hal.</p>

<p><pb n="173" /><anchor id="Pg173" />
<q>You young men are rather hard to entertain
in a place like this,</q> sighed the stranger, but his
eyes twinkled.</p>

<p><q>We are just as grateful for the intention,</q>
Jack assured him.</p>

<p><q>Tell you what I can do, gentlemen,</q> proposed
the stranger, suddenly. <q>I might invite
you down to my shack for a little while, and
show you my books and some models of yachts
and ships that I've been collecting. I'm quite
proud of my collection in that line. Won't you
come?</q></p>

<p>Anything in the line of yacht or ship-models
interested both of these sea-loving boys from the
shipyard at Dunhaven. Jack graciously accepted
the invitation for them both.</p>

<p><q>And, though I have no soda fountain,</q> continued
the bearded one, <q>I can offer you some
soft drinks. I always keep some about the
place.</q></p>

<p><q>How do you come to be living in a place like
this, if I'm not too inquisitive?</q> queried Benson,
as the three strolled down the street.</p>

<p><q>Doctor's orders,</q> replied the bearded one.
<q>So I've rented the best old shack I could get
here, down by the water. I spend a good deal
of my time sailing a sloop that I have. Curtis
is my name.</q></p>

<p>Jack and Hal introduced themselves in turn.</p>

<p><pb n="174" /><anchor id="Pg174" />
Curtis's shack proved to be well away from
the village proper, and down near the waterfront.
A light shone from a window near the
front door as the three approached the small
dwelling.</p>

<p><q>I think I can interest you for an hour, gentlemen,</q>
declared the bearded one, as he
slipped a key in the lock of the door.</p>

<p>He admitted them to a little room off the hallway,
a room that contained not much beyond a
table and four chairs, a side-table and some of
the accessories of the smoker.</p>

<p><q>Just take a seat here,</q> proposed Curtis,
<q>while I get some sarsaparilla for you. I'll be
right back in a moment.</q></p>

<p>It was four or five minutes before Curtis came
back, bearing a tray on which were three tall
glasses, each containing a brownish liquid.</p>

<p><q>The stuff isn't iced, yet it's fairly cold,</q> the
bearded one explained. <q>Well, gentlemen,
here's to a pleasant evening!</q></p>

<p>Hal, who was thirsty, took a long swallow of
the sarsaparilla, finding the flavor excellent.
Jack drank more slowly, though he enjoyed the
beverage.</p>

<p><q>If you don't mind,</q> suggested Curtis, <q>I
will light a cigar. And say, by the way, gentlemen,
what if we take a little walk down to my
beach? Before showing you the models I spoke
<pb n="175" /><anchor id="Pg175" />
of, I'd like to have your opinion of the lines of
my sloop.</q></p>

<p><q>We'll go down and take a look with great
pleasure,</q> Jack Benson agreed, rising. <q>And
I'm glad, sir, that you're able to show us
more courtesy than we were able to offer you
to-night.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, that was all right,</q> declared their host,
smiling good-humoredly. <q>Rules are rules, and
you have your owners to please. No hard feelings
on that score, I assure you.</q></p>

<p>Curtis led the way through a dark yard down
to a pier. Moored there lay a handsome white
sloop, some forty-two feet in length&mdash;a boat of
a good and seaworthy knockabout type.</p>

<p><q>This is a sloop, all right,</q> Jack agreed, cordially.
<q>Rather different from the lumbering
fishing craft hereabouts.</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, hah, yum!</q> yawned Hal, at which Curtis
shot a quick glance at him.</p>

<p><q>Come on board,</q> invited Curtis, stepping
down to the deck of the craft. <q>Let me show
you what a comfortable cruising cabin I have.</q></p>

<p><q>Hi, oh, yow!</q> yawned Hal, again. <q>Jack,
I think I shall enjoy my rest to-night.</q></p>

<p><q>Same case here,</q> agreed Benson, stifling a
yawn that came as though in answer to Hal's.</p>

<p><q>I won't keep you long, gentlemen, if I am
boring you,</q> agreed their host, amiably.
<pb n="176" /><anchor id="Pg176" />
<q>Now, I'll go below first and light up. So!
Now, come down and take a look. Do you find
many yacht cabins more comfortable than this
one?</q></p>

<p>It was, indeed, a cozy place. Up forward
stood a miniature sideboard, complete in every
respect with glass and silver. In the center of
the cabin was a folding table. There were
locker seats and inviting looking cushions. The
trim was largely of mahogany. On either side
was a broad, comfortable-looking berth.</p>

<p><q>Just get into that berth and try it, Mr. Hastings,</q>
urged the bearded one.</p>

<p><q>I&mdash;I'm afraid to,</q> confessed Hal, stifling
another yawn.</p>

<p><q>Afraid?</q></p>

<p><q>Very sure thing!</q></p>

<p><q>Why?</q></p>

<p><q>I'm&mdash;hah-ho-hum!</q> yawned Hal Hastings.
<q>I'm afraid I'd&mdash;yow!&mdash;abuse your hospitality
by going to sleep.</q></p>

<p>Jack Benson leaned against the edge of the
opposite berth, feeling unaccountably drowsy.</p>

<p><q>Oh, nonsense,</q> laughed Curtis. <q>Just pile
into that berth for a moment, Hastings, and see
what a soft, restful place it is. I'll agree to pull
you out, if necessary.</q></p>

<p>Not realizing much, in his approaching
stupor, Hal Hastings allowed himself to be
<pb n="177" /><anchor id="Pg177" />
coaxed to stretch himself at full length in the
downy berth.</p>

<p>Almost immediately he closed his eyes, drifting
off into stupor.</p>

<p><q>Why, your friend <hi rend="font-style: italic">is</hi> drowsy, isn't he?</q>
laughed the bearded one, turning to the submarine
skipper.</p>

<p>Jack Benson's own eyelids were suspiciously
close together.</p>

<p><q>Why&mdash;what&mdash;ails you?</q></p>

<p>Curtis spoke in a low, droning, far-away voice
that caused Jack Benson's upper eyelids to sink.
Curtis stood watching him, in malicious glee, for
some moments. Then, at last, he took hold of
the young skipper.</p>

<p><q>Come, old fellow,</q> coaxed the bearded one,
<q>you'll do best to join your friend in a good
nap. Get up in the berth.</q></p>

<p><q>Lemme alone,</q> protested the boy, thickly,
feeling that he was being lifted. Jack struggled,
partly rousing himself.</p>

<p><q>Come, get up into the berth. You'll be more
comfortable there.</q></p>

<p><q>Lemme alone. What are you trying to do?</q>
demanded Jack, swinging an arm.</p>

<p>Curtis dodged the light blow, then gripped
Jack Benson resolutely.</p>

<p><q>Now, see here, young man,</q> hissed the
bearded one, <q>I'm not going to have any more
<pb n="178" /><anchor id="Pg178" />
nonsense out of you. Up into the berth you go!
Do you want me to hit you?</q></p>

<p>Another man thrust his head down the cabin
hatchway, showing an evil, grinning face.</p>

<p><q>Got 'em right?</q> demanded the one from the
hatchway.</p>

<p><q>Yes,</q> snapped the bearded one, then turned
to give his attention to Jack Benson, who was
putting up an ineffectual fight while Hal slumbered
on. <q>Now, see here, Benson, quit all
your fooling!</q></p>

<p><q>You lemme up,</q> insisted the submarine boy,
in a low, dull voice, though he swung both his
arms in an effort to assert himself. <q>'M not
goin' t' stay here. Lemme up, I say! 'M goin'
back to&mdash;own boat.</q></p>

<p><q>The submarine?</q> jeered the bearded man.</p>

<p><q>Yep.</q></p>

<p><q>Guess again, son,</q> laughed Curtis, jeeringly.
<q>You're not going back aboard the submarine
to-night.</q></p>

<p><q>Am so,</q> declared Benson, obstinately,
though his tone was growing more drowsy every
instant, and his busy hands moved almost as
weakly as an infant's.</p>

<p><q>Listen, if you've got enough of your senses
left,</q> growled the bearded men. <q>You're not
going back to the 'Farnum'&mdash;neither to-night,
nor at any other time during the next few
<pb n="179" /><anchor id="Pg179" />
months. You're bound on a long cruise, but not
on a submarine boat. I am the captain here,
and I'll name the cruise!</q></p>
</div>

<div>
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XVIII: HELD UP BY MARINES</head>

<p>
It was barely a minute afterward that Jack
Benson lapsed into a very distinct snore.</p>

<p><q>No more trouble from this pair,</q>
laughed the bearded one to his companion at the
hatchway. <q>Now, I'll douse the cabin light,
and then we'll cast off. This thing has moved
along very slickly.</q></p>

<p>Eph, after having made up his mind to turn
in early, had found his sleepy fit passing. He
read for a while in the cabin, then pulled on a
reefer and went up on deck. Williamson was
already in a berth, sound asleep.</p>

<p><q>It would be a fine night if there was a
moon,</q> Eph remarked to the marine sentry on
deck.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir.</q></p>

<p>The marine&mdash;<q>soldier, and sailor, too</q>&mdash;not
being there for conversational purposes, continued
his slow pacing, his rifle resting over his
right shoulder.</p>

<p>As Eph strolled about in the limited space of
<pb n="180" /><anchor id="Pg180" />
the platform deck he heard a distant creaking.
It was a sound that he well knew&mdash;the hoisting
of sail.</p>

<p><q>I wonder if the local fishermen start out at
this time of the night?</q> Eph Somers remarked,
musingly, to the sentry.</p>

<p><q>It may be so, sir; I don't know,</q> replied the
marine.</p>

<p>Presently Eph made out the lines and the
spread of canvas of a handsome knockabout
sloop standing on out of the harbor.</p>

<p>The course being narrow, the sloop was
obliged to sail rather close to the fleet.</p>

<p><q>That's no fisherman!</q> muttered Somers,
watching, his hands thrust deep in his pockets.</p>

<p>Presently the sloop's hull was lost to Eph's
sight beyond the gunboat. Then the boy heard
a voice from the <q>Hudson's</q> deck roar out:</p>

<p><q>Look alive, you lubber! Do you want to
foul our anchor chain?</q></p>

<p><q>No, sir,</q> came from the sloop's deck.
<q>We'll clear you all right.</q></p>

<p><q>See that you do, then!</q></p>

<p>Then the sloop's hull came into view again,
as the craft headed out toward the open water
beyond.</p>

<p><q>That's the kind of a craft Jack would give
a heap to be on,</q> thought Eph. <q>Queer that
he should spend all his time on gasoline peanut-roasters
<pb n="181" /><anchor id="Pg181" />
when he's so fond of whistling for a
breeze behind canvas.</q></p>

<p>As the sloop neared the mouth of the little
bay, and her lines became rather indistinct in
the darkness, Eph Somers turned to resume his
pacing of the deck.</p>

<p><q>Hullo,</q> muttered the submarine boy, two
or three minutes later. <q>Here's the shore boat
coming on its regular trip. I wonder if Jack
and Hal are in it? It's about time for them to
be coming on board.</q></p>

<p>But the shore boat, instead of coming out to
the submarine, lay in at the side gangway of
the gunboat opposite, and Eph discovered that
his two comrades were not in the boat.</p>

<p><q>I say,</q> hailed Eph, <q>have you seen Mr. Benson
and Mr. Hastings on shore!</q></p>

<p><q>No, sir,</q> replied the petty officer in charge.</p>

<p>Then one of the sailors in the boat spoke in
an undertone.</p>

<p><q>This man says, sir,</q> continued the petty
officer, <q>that he saw your friends, sir, going
aboard a white knockabout sloop.</q></p>

<p><q>He did, eh?</q> demanded the astonished Eph.
<q>How long ago was that?</q></p>

<p><q>Only a few minutes ago, sir,</q> replied the
sailor.</p>

<p><q>You're sure you saw Mr. Benson and Mr.
Hastings?</q></p>

<p><pb n="182" /><anchor id="Pg182" />
<q>Yes, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>That's queer,</q> reflected Eph. <q>It wouldn't
be like them to go sailing at this time of the
night, and without notifying me, either. But,
then, I didn't see anything of 'em aboard that
sloop, either.</q></p>

<p>Eph was silent for a few moments, thinking.
Then, suddenly, he leaped up in the air, coming
down flat-footed.</p>

<p><q>Crackey!</q> ejaculated Eph Somers.</p>

<p>For a moment or two his face was a study in
bewilderment.</p>

<p><q>Mighty strange things have been happening
all through this cruise,</q> Eph muttered, half-aloud.
<q>Especially happening to Jack! Now,
the two of them go aboard that sloop, and immediately
after the boat puts out to sea in the
dead of night. What if Jack and Hal have
been shanghaied on that infernal sloop?</q></p>

<p>Cold chills began to chase each other up and
down the spine of Eph Somers. He was not,
ordinarily, an imaginative youth, but just now
the gruesome thought that had entered his mind
persisted there.</p>

<p>He began to pace the platform deck in deep
agitation.</p>

<p><q>Anything wrong, sir?</q> questioned the marine
sentry, halting and throwing his rifle over
to port arms.</p>

<p><pb n="183" /><anchor id="Pg183" />
<q>That's just what I'd give a million dollars
and ten cents to know!</q> exploded Eph.</p>

<p><q>Gunboat, ahoy!</q> he shouted, some twenty
seconds later.</p>

<p><q>'Farnum,' ahoy!</q></p>

<p><q>I half believe, sir,</q> Eph rattled on, <q>that
my two comrades, Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings
have been tricked, in some way, and carried
out to sea on that knockabout. They'd have
been back from shore by this time, if nothing
had happened.</q></p>

<p><q>What do you want to do, Mr. Somers?</q></p>

<p><q>Want to do, sir?</q> retorted Eph. <q>I know
what I'm going to do. I'm going to slip moorings
and chase after that knockabout. What
I wish to know from you, sir, is whether you'll
send another marine or two on board, so that I
can back up my demand to find my friends?</q></p>

<p><q>I'll have to ask the lieutenant commander
about that, Mr. Somers.</q></p>

<p><q>Can you do it, now, sir?</q> asked Eph, energetically.</p>

<p><q>Instantly. I'll let you know the decision as
soon as it's made.</q></p>

<p>Eph, hanging at the rail in the silence that
followed, had no notion of whether his request
had been a correct one. All he knew was that
his suspicions had surged to the surface, and
were threatening to boil over. It was a huge
<pb n="184" /><anchor id="Pg184" />
relief to the boy when Mr. Mayhew's voice
sounded from the rail of the gunboat. Somers
swiftly answered all questions.</p>

<p><q>Your craft and crew are in a measure under
our protection and orders,</q> decided Mr. Mayhew.
<q>I think we may properly extend you
some help. I will send some men to you, and a
cadet midshipman who will have my instructions.</q></p>

<p><q>Will you send them quickly, sir?</q> begged
Eph.</p>

<p><q>I'll have men on board of you by the time
that your engines are running,</q> promised the
lieutenant commander.</p>

<p><q>Engines?</q> That word came as a fortunate
reminder to the submarine boy. He darted below,
almost yanking Williamson from his berth,
nearly pulling the machinist into his clothes.
By the time that Williamson was really wide
awake he found himself standing by the motors
forward.</p>

<p>Then young Somers darted onto deck again,
just in time to see the boat coming alongside.
It brought two more marines, one of them a corporal.
There were also two sailors. A cadet
midshipman commanded them.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Somers,</q> reported the cadet midshipman,
<q>I am not intended to displace you from
the command of this boat. I am here only with
<pb n="185" /><anchor id="Pg185" />
definite instructions in case you succeed in overhauling
that white sloop.</q></p>

<p><q>What&mdash;</q> began Eph. Then he paused,
with a half-grin. <q>Really,</q> he added, <q>I ought
to know better than to quiz you about your instructions
from your superior officer.</q></p>

<p><q>Yes, sir,</q> assented the midshipman, simply.</p>

<p>Eph turned on the current to the search-light,
swinging the ray about the bay. Then, too impatient
to sit in the conning tower, the submarine
boy took his place by the deck wheel.</p>

<p><q>Will your seamen cast loose from the moorings?</q>
Somers asked.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir,</q> replied the midshipman.</p>

<p><q>If there's anything wrong, good luck to
you,</q> sounded the cool voice of Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew, from the gunboat's rail.</p>

<p><q>Thank you, sir.</q></p>

<p>No sooner had the moorings been cast loose
from than Eph sounded the slow speed ahead
bell. Within sixty seconds the propellers of
the <q>Farnum</q> were doing a ten-knot stunt,
which was soon increased to fourteen.</p>

<p>One of the seamen now stood by to swing the
searchlight under Eph's orders.</p>

<p>By the time that the submarine reached the
mouth of the bay the light faintly picked up
a spread of white sail, off to the East.</p>

<p><q>That's the knockabout,</q> cried Eph, excitedly.
<pb n="186" /><anchor id="Pg186" />
<q>Now, see here, keep that ray right
across the boat as soon as we get half a mile
nearer.</q></p>

<p><q>It'll show the boat that you're chasing 'em,
sir,</q> advised the midshipman.</p>

<p><q>I know it,</q> admitted Eph. <q>But it will also
keep the rascals from dumping my friends overboard
without our catching 'em at it.</q></p>

<p><q>What do you think the men in charge of
that boat are, sir&mdash;pirates?</q></p>

<p><q>They're mighty close to it, if they've shanghaied
Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings and put to
sea with 'em,</q> rejoined Eph. Then he rang for
more speed. Down below, Williamson almost
instantly responded. The <q>Farnum</q> now
fairly leaped through the water.</p>

<p><q>Turn the light on the knockabout, now, and
keep it there,</q> directed the submarine boy.</p>

<p>There was a seven-knot breeze blowing. At
the speed at which the submarine boat was traveling
the distance was soon covered.</p>

<p>And now the searchlight revealed two men
in the standing-room of the sloop, one of whom,
a bearded man, was looking backward over his
wake much of the time.</p>

<p><q>Can one of the marines fire a shot to stop
those fellows?</q> asked Eph Somers.</p>

<p><q>In the air, do you mean, sir?</q> asked the
midshipman. <q>Certainly.</q></p>

<p><pb n="187" /><anchor id="Pg187" />
<q>Then I wish he'd do it.</q></p>

<p>Bang! The discharge of the rifle sounded
sharply on the night air.</p>

<p><q>It ain't stopping 'em any,</q> muttered Eph,
after a few seconds had gone by.</p>

<p><q>Nothing would, unless fired into them,</q> volunteered
Midshipman Terrell.</p>

<p>It did not take long, however, to run the submarine
up alongside of the sloop, at a distance
of about one hundred yards.</p>

<p><q>Now, we want you men to stop,</q> called Midshipman
Terrell, between his hands. <q>We are
United States naval forces, from the gunboat,
and you will regard this as an order that you
must obey. No!</q> thundered the midshipman,
suddenly, as the bearded one started to step
down into the cabin. <q>You will both keep on
deck. Otherwise we shall be obliged to fire into
you. We mean business, remember!</q></p>

<p><q>What do you want to board us for?</q> demanded
Curtis, pausing.</p>

<p><q>We will explain when we come aboard.</q></p>

<p><q>How are you coming, aboard? You've no
small boat.</q></p>

<p><q>We can land this submarine right up beside
you,</q> responded the midshipman, <q>if you keep
straight to your present course.</q></p>

<p><q>And scrape all the paint off our side,</q> objected
Curtis.</p>

<p><pb n="188" /><anchor id="Pg188" />
<q>That has no bearing on my instructions, sir.
I direct you to keep straight to your present
course. We will come up alongside.</q></p>

<p><q>What if we don't do it?</q> demanded Curtis,
with sudden bluster.</p>

<p><q>Then your danger will be divided between
being shot where you stand and having your
craft cut in two by the bow of our craft,</q> retorted
Mr. Terrell. <q>You will realize, I think,
that there can be no parleying with our orders.</q></p>

<p>The bearded one swore, but the corporal and
his two marines stood at the rail with their
rifles ready, waiting only the midshipman's
order to aim and fire.</p>

<p>Eph allowed the <q>Farnum</q> to fall back a
little way. Then he exerted himself to show his
best in seamanship as he ran the submarine up
to board the sloop by the starboard quarter.
The two boats barely touched. Mr. Terrell, his
three marines and two seamen leaped to the
standing room of the yacht. Eph, all aquiver,
let the nose of the <q>Farnum</q> fall back slightly.
Then he trailed along, under bare headway.</p>

<p>Then a shout came from the sloop, as the two
seamen reappeared, bearing the forms of Jack
and Hal.</p>

<p><q>We've found them aboard, Mr. Somers,</q>
shouted Terrell. <q>Drugged, I think, sir. Will
you come alongside, sir.</q></p>

<p><pb n="189" /><anchor id="Pg189" />
Eph quickly rang the signal, then did some
careful man&oelig;uvring. As he touched, one of the
marines leaped back to the platform deck, then
passed a line to Mr. Terrell. The two craft
were held together until Jack and Hal had been
passed, still unconscious, over the side. The
naval party quickly followed, then cast loose
from the sloop.</p>

<p><q>This whole proceeding is high-handed,</q>
growled Curtis, as soon as he saw that he was
not to be molested.</p>

<p><q>Oh, you shut up, and keep your tongue padlocked,</q>
retorted Midshipman Terrell, in high
disgust. <q>You're lucky as it is. Now, Mr.
Somers, are you going back to the bay, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>Aren't you going to take those two&mdash;body-snatchers?</q>
demanded Eph, glaring venomously
at the pair on the sloop.</p>

<p><q>My instructions don't cover that, sir,</q> replied
the cadet midshipman.</p>

<p><q>Then hang your orders!</q> muttered young
Somers, but he kept the words behind his teeth.
Eph veered off, next headed about, while the
two seamen bore Jack and Hal below to their
berths.</p>

<p><q>Will you take the wheel, Mr. Terrell?</q>
asked Eph, edging away, with one hand on the
spokes.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir.</q></p>

<p><pb n="190" /><anchor id="Pg190" />
Eph hurried below to the port stateroom.
Jack lay in the lower berth, Hal in the upper.
The two seamen, after feeling for pulse, stood
by looking at the unconscious submarine
boys.</p>

<p><q>What's been done to them?</q> demanded
Eph.</p>

<p><q>The same old knockout drops, sir, that sailors
in all parts of the world know so well, sir, I
think,</q> answered one of the men, with a quiet
grin.</p>

<p><q>Humph!</q> gritted Eph, bending over Jack's
face. <q>Smell his breath.</q></p>

<p><q>Yes, sir,</q> said the sailor, obeying.</p>

<p><q>There's no smell of liquor, there, is there?</q></p>

<p><q>No, sir,</q> admitted the sailor, looking up,
rather puzzled.</p>

<p><q>There is some infernally mean trick in all
this,</q> growled Eph. <q>I am mighty sorry we
didn't bring those rascals back with us.</q></p>

<p>When he went on deck again the submarine
boy relieved Mr. Terrell at the wheel, completing
the run in to moorings.</p>

<p><q>Did you find your comrades aboard the
sloop, Mr. Somers?</q> hailed the lieutenant commander,
from the gunboat.</p>

<p><q>Yes, sir.</q></p>

<p><q>Are they all right?</q></p>

<p><q>Drugged, sir.</q></p>

<p><pb n="191" /><anchor id="Pg191" />
<q>Hm! Mr. Terrell and his detachment will
return to this vessel.</q></p>

<p>The boat took them away. It was five minutes
later when the boat returned, bringing the
lieutenant commander, Doctor McCrea, the surgeon,
and a sailor belonging to the hospital
detachment aboard the <q>Hudson.</q> Eph conducted
them below.</p>

<p><q>Drugged,</q> announced the medical officer,
after a brief examination.</p>

<p><q>Humph!</q> uttered Mr. Mayhew. <q>That
sort of trick isn't played on folks in any decent
resort on shore. I don't understand Mr. Benson's
conduct. I remember his mishap at Dunhaven.
I remember the plight he got into at
Annapolis; and now he and Mr. Hastings are
found in this questionable shape. I am very
much afraid these young men do not conduct
themselves, on shore, in the careful manner that
must be expected of civilian instructors to
cadets.</q></p>

<p>Eph Somers felt something boiling up inside
of him.</p>
</div>

<div>
<pb n="192" /><anchor id="Pg192" />
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XIX: THE LIEUTENANT COMMANDER'S VERDICT</head>

<p>
<q>Let me try to get at your meaning, sir, if
you please,</q> begged Somers, after
standing for a few seconds with
clenched fists. <q>Do you mean that my friends
have been going into tough resorts on shore?</q></p>

<p><q>Where else do sailors usually get drugged?</q>
inquired Mr. Mayhew. <q>What kind of people
usually feed sea-faring men with what are generally
known as knock-out drops?</q></p>

<p><q>How should I know?</q> demanded Eph,
solemnly.</p>

<p><q>You see your friends, and you see their
condition.</q></p>

<p><q>Smell their breaths, sir. There isn't a trace
of the odor of liquor.</q></p>

<p>The surgeon did so, confirming Eph's claim.</p>

<p><q>But I remember that Mr. Benson came
aboard, at Dunhaven, with a very strong odor of
liquor,</q> continued the lieutenant commander.</p>

<p><q>That had been sprinkled on his clothes, sir,</q>
argued Somers.</p>

<p><q>Perhaps. But then there was the Annapolis
affair.</q></p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson explained that to you, sir.</q></p>

<p><pb n="193" /><anchor id="Pg193" />
<q>It's very strange,</q> returned the lieutenant
commander, <q>that such things seem to happen
generally to Mr. Benson when he gets on shore.
I know I have been ashore, in all parts of the
world, without having such things happen to
me.</q></p>

<p><q>There is something behind this, sir, that
doesn't spell bad conduct on the part of either
of my friends,</q> cried Eph, hotly. <q>There's
some plot, some trick in the whole thing that we
don't understand. And we might understand
much more about it, sir, if your midshipman had
arrested that pair of blackguards on the sloop,
and brought them back with us.</q></p>

<p><q>Had Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings been
members of the naval forces we could have done
that,</q> replied Mr. Mayhew. <q>Probably you
don't understand, Mr. Somers, how very careful
the Navy has to be about making arrests in times
of peace, when the civil authorities are all-supreme.
We carried our right as far as it
could possibly be stretched when we boarded
and searched that sloop for you.</q></p>

<p><q>I don't care so much about that,</q> contended
Eph, warmly. <q>But it does jar on me, sir, to
have you take such a view of my friends. You
don't know them; you don't understand them as
Mr. Farnum and Mr. Pollard do.</q></p>

<p><q>Perhaps you wouldn't blame me as much for
<pb n="194" /><anchor id="Pg194" />
my opinions,</q> replied Mr. Mayhew, <q>if you
could look at the matter from my viewpoint, Mr.
Somers. I am in charge of this cruise, which
is one of instruction to naval cadets, and I am
in a very large measure responsible for the conduct
and good behavior of young men who
have been selected as instructors to the
cadets. If you were in my place, Mr. Somers,
would you be patient over young men who, when
they get ashore, get into one unseemly scrape
after another? Or would you wonder, as I do,
whether it will not be best for me to end this
practice cruise and sail back to Annapolis, there
to make my report in the matter?</q></p>

<p><q>For heaven's sake don't do that,</q> begged
Eph Somers, hoarsely. <q>At least, not until you
have talked with Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings.
You'll wait until morning, sir?</q></p>

<p><q>I'm afraid I shall have to, if I want to talk
with your friends,</q> replied the lieutenant commander,
smiling coldly. <q>And now, Mr. Somers,
you and I had better leave here. The doctor
and his nurse will want the room cleared in order
to look after their patients. I hope your friends
will be all right in the morning,</q> added the
naval officer, as the pair gained the deck.</p>

<p><q>Now, see here, sir,</q> began Eph, earnestly,
all over again. <q>I hope you'll soon begin to
understand that, whatever has happened, there
<pb n="195" /><anchor id="Pg195" />
are no two straighter boys alive than Jack Benson
and Hal Hastings.</q></p>

<p><q>I trust you're right,</q> replied Mr. Mayhew,
less coldly. <q>Yet, what can you expect me to
think, now that Benson has been in such scrapes
three different times? And, in this last instance,
he drags even the quiet Mr. Hastings into
the affair with him.</q></p>

<p><q>I see that I'll have to wait, sir,</q> sighed Eph,
resignedly.</p>

<p><q>Yes; it will be better in every way to wait,</q>
agreed the lieutenant commander. <q>It is plain
justice, at the least, to wait and give the young
men a chance to offer any defense that they
can.</q></p>

<p><q>Now, of course, from his way of looking at
it, I can't blame him so very much,</q> admitted
Eph Somers, as he leaned over the rail, watching
Mr. Mayhew going back through the darkness.
<q>But Jack&mdash;great old Jack!&mdash;having any
liking at all for mixing up in saloons and such
places on shore! Ha, ha! Ho, ho!</q></p>

<p>Williamson, now able to leave his motors,
came on deck, asking an account of what had
happened. The machinist listened in amazement,
though, like Eph, he needed no proof that
the boys, whatever trouble they had encountered,
had met honestly and innocently.</p>

<p><q>Of course that naval officer is right, too, from
<pb n="196" /><anchor id="Pg196" />
his own limited point of view,</q> urged Williamson.</p>

<p><q>Oh, yes, I suppose so,</q> nodded Somers,
gloomily. <q>I've been trying to tell myself that.
But it would be fearful, wouldn't it, if the 'Farnum'
were ordered away from the fleet, and
Jack disgraced, just because of things he really
didn't do.</q></p>

<p><q>It's a queer old world,</q> mused the machinist,
thoughtfully. <q>We hear a lot about the
consequences of wrong things we do. But how
often people seem to have to pay up for things
they never did!</q></p>

<p><q>Oh, well,</q> muttered Eph, philosophically,
<q>let's wait until morning. A night's sleep
straightens out a lot of things.</q></p>

<p>Williamson, however, having had some sleep
earlier in the night, was not drowsy, now. He
lighted a pipe, lingering on the platform deck.
Eph, not being a user of tobacco, went below to
find that Doctor McCrea, from the gunboat, was
sitting in the cabin, reading a book he had
chosen from the book-case.</p>

<p><q>I've brought the young men around somewhat,</q>
reported the physician. <q>I've made
them throw off the drug, and now I've left some
stuff with the nurse to help brace them up.
They'll have sour stomachs and aching heads in
the morning, though.</q></p>

<p><pb n="197" /><anchor id="Pg197" />
<q>But you noticed one thing, Doctor?</q>
pressed Somers.</p>

<p><q>What was that?</q></p>

<p><q>That there were no signs of liquor about
them? Those boys never tasted a drop of the
vile stuff in their lives!</q></p>

<p><q>I'm inclined to believe you,</q> nodded the
surgeon. <q>They have splendid, clear skins,
eyes bright as diamonds, sound, sturdy heart-beats,
and they're full of vitality. I've met
boys from the slums, once in a while&mdash;beer-drinkers
and cigarette-smokers. But such boys
never show the splendid physical condition that
your friends possess.</q></p>

<p><q>You know, then, as well as I do, Doctor, that
neither of my chums are rowdies, and that,
whatever happened to them to-night, they didn't
get to it through any bad habits or conduct?</q></p>

<p><q>I'm much inclined to agree with you, Mr.
Somers.</q></p>

<p><q>I hope, then, you'll succeed in impressing all
that on Lieutenant Commander Mayhew in the
morning.</q></p>

<p>With that the submarine boy passed on to the
starboard stateroom. He would have given
much to have stepped into the room opposite,
but felt, from the doctor's manner, that the latter
did not wish his patients disturbed.</p>

<p>Eph slept little that night. Though Jack and
<pb n="198" /><anchor id="Pg198" />
Hal fared better in that single respect, Somers
looked far the best of the three in the morning.</p>

<p>Jack and Hal came out with bandages about
their heads, which buzzed and ached.</p>

<p>The two, however, told their story to Somers
and Williamson as soon as possible.</p>

<p><q>Just as I supposed,</q> nodded Eph, vigorously.</p>

<p><q>Why, how did you guess it all?</q> asked Benson,
in astonishment.</p>

<p><q>I mean, I knew you hadn't been in any low
sailor resorts.</q></p>

<p><q>Who said we had?</q> demanded Jack, flaring
in spite of his dizziness.</p>

<p><q>Some of the Navy folks didn't know but you
had,</q> replied Eph, then bit his tongue for having
let that much out of the bag.</p>

<p>Doctor McCrea came aboard early. He
looked the boys over.</p>

<p><q>Eat a little toast, if you want, and drink
some weak tea,</q> he suggested. <q>After that, eat
nothing more until to-night.</q></p>

<p><q>But the day's work&mdash;?</q> hinted Jack.</p>

<p><q>I don't know,</q> replied the doctor, shrugging
his shoulders. <q>I'm not a line officer, and
therefore know nothing about the fleet's
man&oelig;uvres.</q></p>

<p>That reply, however, was quite enough to send
Jack Benson's suspicions aloft.</p>

<p><pb n="199" /><anchor id="Pg199" />
<q>Eph,</q> he cried, wheeling upon his friend the
moment Doctor McCrea was gone, <q>there's
something you haven't told us.</q></p>

<p><q>Such as&mdash;what?</q> asked Somers, doing his
best to look mighty innocent.</p>

<p><q>Doctor McCrea as good as admitted that we
won't have anything to do to-day. What's
wrong?</q> Then, after a brief pause: <q>Good
heavens, does Mr. Mayhew believe we've been
acting disgracefully? Are we barred out of the
instruction work?</q></p>

<p>Hal had been raising a glass of cold water to
his lips. The glass fell, with a crash. He
wheeled about, then clutched at the edge of the
cabin table, most unsteadily.</p>

<p><q>We-e-ll,</q> admitted Somers, reluctantly,
<q>Mr. Mayhew said he would want to question
you some, perhaps, this morning.</q></p>

<p><q>What did he say? Out with it all, Eph!</q></p>

<p>A moment before Jack Benson had been pallid
enough. Now, two bright, furious spots burned
in either cheek.</p>

<p>The red-haired boy, however, was spared the
pain of going any further, for, at that moment,
a heavy tread was heard on the spiral staircase.
Then Lieutenant Commander Mayhew, holding
himself very erect, one hand resting against the
scabbard of the sword that he wore at his side,
came into view below.</p>

<p><pb n="200" /><anchor id="Pg200" />
Many were the questions that the naval officer
put to the victims of the night's mishap.</p>

<p><q>Well, gentlemen,</q> Mr. Mayhew said at last,
rising, <q>your story is strange. Yet, I believe
you are young men of honor. I'm sorry we
have not in custody the men who sailed that
sloop.</q></p>

<p><q>Pardon me, sir!</q> burst out Eph.</p>

<p><q>Well, Mr. Somers?</q></p>

<p><q>Perhaps, sir, if you should question Truax
you could learn something from him. I tell
you, sir, there's a scheme to ruin Jack Benson;
and that's only part of a bigger plot to discredit
our company with the Navy!</q></p>

<p>Mr. Mayhew, looking thoughtful, replied:</p>

<p><q>I'll find some way of questioning Truax.
And now, Mr. Benson, since you and Mr. Hastings
are not fit to instruct the cadets to-day, I'll
send out sections under Lieutenant Halpin on
board the 'Pollard' only. To-morrow you
should be in shape to resume your duties.
Meanwhile, I must make one condition.</q></p>

<p><q>It will not be necessary, sir, to make any
conditions with us,</q> Jack replied. <q>Your instructions
will be sufficient.</q></p>

<p><q>While you are on this present tour of duty,
I shall ask Mr. Benson and Mr. Hastings not to
leave the 'Farnum' without my consent.</q></p>

<p>As soon as Mr. Mayhew had left the <q>Farnum</q>
Eph Somers cried bitterly:</p>

<p><pb n="201" /><anchor id="Pg201" />
<q>You heard the verdict in the case! A great
verdict! Not guilty&mdash;but don't do it again!</q></p>

<p>At half past eight the next morning a section
of cadets, under the command of Ensign Trahern,
came aboard the <q>Farnum.</q></p>

<p><q>The lieutenant commander sends word, with
his compliments,</q> reported Trahern, <q>that
after leaving the bay the formation will be as
usual. The signal to halt and be ready for the
tour of instruction will be given when we're
about ten miles off shore.</q></p>

<p>Six of the cadets, of the engineer division,
went below to the engine room. To one of the
ten left on deck Jack turned and said:</p>

<p><q>You will take charge, Mr. Surles. Assume
all the responsibilities of the officer of the
deck.</q></p>

<p>In all, five of the midshipmen had commanded
briefly before the laying-to signal was given.
Hal Hastings then appeared on deck.</p>

<p><q>Captain Benson,</q> Hal stated, saluting, <q>I
have inspected all the submerging machinery,
and I find everything in good order. We can
go below the surface at any time.</q></p>

<p><q>Thank you, Mr. Hastings. All below!</q>
ordered Jack crisply.</p>

<p>After the cadets and the ensign had filed below,
Jack, having seen that all was in order,
followed. He made all fast in the conning
<pb n="202" /><anchor id="Pg202" />
tower, then called Midshipman Surles up the
stairway to the tower wheel.</p>

<p><q>Do you think you can head due east and
keep to that course under water, Mr. Surles?</q></p>

<p><q>Yes, sir.</q></p>

<p>Going down to the cabin floor, Jack ordered
two more midshipmen to the tower as observers.</p>

<p><q>The rest crowd about me and ask questions
while I handle the submerging machinery.</q></p>

<p>Under the impetus from the electric motors,
the propeller shafts began to throb. The next
instant the submarine shot below, going down
at so steep an angle that many of the middies
were forced to reach for new footing.</p>

<p><q>The gauge registers sixty feet below,</q> announced
Jack.</p>

<p>In another moment, by the quick flooding of
some of the compartments astern, the young
skipper brought the boat to an even keel.</p>

<p>Having finished the prescribed distance
under water, Captain Jack turned on the compressed
air to expel the water from the compartments.
The conning tower soon rose above
the water, and a moment later the <q>Pollard</q>
also emerged.</p>

<p>Other cadets were transferred from the gunboat
to the submarines, and the instruction proceeded.
The man&oelig;uvers for the day were ended
with a half-hour run under water.</p>

<p><pb n="203" /><anchor id="Pg203" />
<q>By the way, sir, did you question Truax to
see what you could learn about his reasons for
acting as he did on the 'Farnum'?</q> asked Jack
Benson the next day. Jack and Doctor McCrea
were talking with Mr. Mayhew.</p>

<p><q>I had him before me last night, and again
this morning,</q> replied Mr. Mayhew. <q>He said
he hadn't an idea what I meant, and that is all
I could get out of him.</q></p>

<p>Jack looked thoughtfully at Doctor McCrea
for a moment before he exclaimed:</p>

<p><q>Doctor, if I had anything like your chance,
I'd have Sam Truax talking!</q></p>

<p><q>How?</q> Doctor McCrea looked interested.</p>

<p><q>Why, I'd&mdash;</q> Jack hesitated, glancing toward
the gunboat's commanding officer.</p>

<p><q>I'd better go and see how the midshipmen
are doing,</q> laughed Mr. Mayhew, rising.</p>

<p>For some minutes Jack talked with Doctor
McCrea. As the medical officer listened, he
grinned, then laughed unrestrainedly.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson, you're certainly ingenious!</q></p>

<p><q>Will you do what I've suggested?</q></p>

<p><q>Why, I&mdash;er&mdash;er&mdash;</q> Doctor McCrea hesitated.
<q>I&mdash;well, I'll think it over.</q> Again
Doctor McCrea roared with laughter.</p>
</div>

<div>
<pb n="204" /><anchor id="Pg204" />
<index index="toc" />
<index index="pdf" />
<head rend="text-align: center; font-size: large">CHAPTER XX: CONCLUSION</head>

<p>
Sam Truax sat in the brig, between decks
on the <q>Hudson,</q> his scowling face turned
toward the barred door, when the marine
guard, taking a turn, peered in.</p>

<p><q>Good heavens, man! What ails you?</q> demanded
the marine.</p>

<p><q>I'm all right,</q> growled the prisoner.</p>

<p><q>I'll be hanged if you look it.</q></p>

<p><q>What are you talking about!</q> demanded
the prisoner angrily.</p>

<p><q>Man alive, I wish you could see your face!</q></p>

<p>Three minutes later a sailor halted at the
door, looked at Truax, then wheeled about to
the marine.</p>

<p><q>Say, what ails that man? What's the matter
with his face?</q></p>

<p><q>Don't know. Looks fearful, doesn't he?</q></p>

<p><q>Awful! Ought to have the doctor.</q></p>

<p>Sam shifted uneasily.</p>

<p>Five minutes later a sailor wearing on one
sleeve the Red Cross of the hospital squad came
along.</p>

<p><q>Say,</q> said the marine, <q>I wish you'd look
at the feller in the brig.</q></p>

<p><pb n="205" /><anchor id="Pg205" />
The hospital man showed his face at the grating
and looked at Truax keenly.</p>

<p><q>Wow! The sawbones officer has got to look
at this chap!</q></p>

<p>Sam Truax sprang to his feet, but his legs
wobbled. He felt his heart-beats racing and
his face flushing.</p>

<p><q>I felt all right a little while ago, but I certainly
feel queer now,</q> he muttered.</p>

<p>Doctor McCrea soon hurried below.</p>

<p><q>Sentry, unlock the door! Let me in there!</q></p>

<p>Doctor McCrea made a brief examination.</p>

<p><q>How long have you been feeling ill?</q></p>

<p><q>N-not long,</q> faltered Truax.</p>

<p><q>Hospital man!</q> called Doctor McCrea.</p>

<p><q>Aye, aye, sir!</q></p>

<p><q>Have the stretcher brought here at once.</q></p>

<p><q>Aye, aye, sir!</q></p>

<p>The stretcher was brought, and the attendants
put Truax on it.</p>

<p><q>I can walk, Doctor,</q> he protested feebly.</p>

<p><q>Can't risk it! To the 'sick bay,' men.</q></p>

<p><q>What's wrong, Doctor?</q> Truax asked, when
he was lifted from the stretcher and placed in
one of the berths.</p>

<p><q>Don't talk, my man. Just lie quietly and
let us get you on your feet&mdash;if we can,</q> he
added under his breath, but not so softly but
that Sam Truax heard him.</p>

<p><pb n="206" /><anchor id="Pg206" />
The attendant came with a glass of liquid.</p>

<p><q>Drink this,</q> ordered the surgeon, <q>and in
a few minutes you'll feel better.</q></p>

<p><q>I&mdash;I feel awful,</q> Truax groaned.</p>

<p>The dose was repeated, but the patient continued
to grow worse. His nausea was overwhelming
and he vomited over and over. In an
interval of quiet the doctor leaned over him.</p>

<p><q>Have you anything on your mind, man?
Any wrong you'd like to set straight before&mdash;before&mdash;</q></p>

<p>A look of fright came into Truax's eyes.</p>

<p><q>Doctor, I&mdash;I wonder if Jack Benson would
come to see me?</q></p>

<p><q>I'll see,</q> replied the doctor, rising and leaving
the <q>sick bay.</q></p>

<p>Ten minutes later the naval surgeon returned
with Benson. Hal Hastings, Mr. Mayhew and
Ensign Trahern followed Jack and the doctor.</p>

<p><q>Here's Mr. Benson, Truax,</q> announced
Doctor McCrea. <q>If there's anything you wish
to confess, the rest of us can bear witness and
help straighten matters out if you've done any
wrong that you now regret.</q></p>

<p>Sam Truax feebly stretched out a hand that
was hot and dry.</p>

<p><q>Benson, will you give me your hand?</q></p>

<p><q>Certainly.</q></p>

<p><q>Can you ever forgive me?</q> moaned the man.</p>

<p><pb n="207" /><anchor id="Pg207" />
<q>Why, what have you done?</q> asked Jack.</p>

<p><q>That assault back in Dunhaven&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>Was it you who knocked me out there?</q> demanded
Benson sharply.</p>

<p><q>Yes.</q> In a shaking voice Truax confessed
the details of the affair and from that passed to
Jack's trip to the suburbs of Annapolis.</p>

<p><q>I found the mulatto in a low den. I told
him you carried a lot of money and that he
could have it all if he'd decoy you somewhere,
keep you all night, and send you back to the
Naval Academy looking like a tramp.</q> He
then added the name of the mulatto.</p>

<p><q>But why have you done this?</q> demanded
Jack. <q>What have you against me?</q></p>

<p><q>I didn't do it on my own account. I did
it for Tip Gaynor, a salesman for Sidenham.</q></p>

<p><q>The Sidenham Submarine Company?</q>
cried Jack, deeply interested. <q>The Sidenham
people are our nearest competitors in the
submarine business!</q> he exclaimed.</p>

<p><q>Yes; and they wanted to get the business
away from the Pollard Company. They told
Tip Gaynor it would be worth ten thousand
dollars to him for each Sidenham boat he could
sell to the Government. Tip hired me&mdash;</q></p>

<p><q>One moment, please,</q> interrupted Jack.
<q>Did the Sidenham officials know that Gaynor
intended to use such methods?</q></p>

<p><pb n="208" /><anchor id="Pg208" />
<q>I don't believe they did,</q> replied Truax.</p>

<p><q>Humph! So Gaynor hired you to do all you
could to disgrace me in the eyes of the naval
authorities and to injure the machinery in the
engine room of the submarine!</q></p>

<p><q>Yes. Tip said it was highly important that
the Pollard boats should break down while
under the eyes of all Annapolis, so that it would
seem that they could not be depended upon.</q></p>

<p>Truax here became so ill that his audience
had to wait until he could proceed. Then Jack
asked:</p>

<p><q>What sort of looking fellow is Gaynor?</q></p>

<p><q>He was the black-bearded man who shanghaied
you in the white knockabout. He doesn't
usually wear a beard. He grew it for the occasion.</q></p>

<p><q>So, acting for Tip Gaynor, you undertook to
ruin us all and the good name of our boats!
You even met Dave Pollard and got him to take
you on as a machinist for our boats!</q></p>

<p><q>Tip knew a man who was willing to introduce
me to Mr. Pollard.</q></p>

<p><q>It was like kindly, unsuspicious Dave Pollard
to be taken in by a rascal like that,</q> muttered
Jack to himself.</p>

<p>Sam Truax added a few more details to his
confession, then said:</p>

<p><q>I couldn't die without telling you this, Benson.
I hope you forgive me.</q></p>

<p><pb n="209" /><anchor id="Pg209" />
Before Jack Benson could reply Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew stepped forward.</p>

<p><q>Truax, have you told us the exact truth?</q></p>

<p><q>I have.</q></p>

<p><q>You thought it would be easy to get the
better of a boy like Benson, I suppose.</q></p>

<p><q>Easy enough,</q> admitted Sam. <q>So did
Tip.</q></p>

<p><q>You shot far below the mark in guessing at
Benson's ingenuity and brains,</q> remarked
Doctor McCrea, laughing. <q>It was he who suggested
this way of inducing you to make this
confession after you had refused to answer the
lieutenant commander's questions.</q></p>

<p><q>What?</q> demanded Truax harshly.</p>

<p><q>When I was first called in to you, you were
not sick, only scared by the remarks of others.
After we got you in here, we dosed you with
ipecac. That started your stomach to moving
up and down.</q></p>

<p><q>What? You poisoned me?</q></p>

<p><q>The ipecac was my choice. It isn't poison.
The general idea was Captain Benson's. With
a lad like him you haven't a chance.</q></p>

<p><q>Benson, you infernal cheat, you!</q> muttered
Truax, and started to get out of the berth. But
he was weak, and the attendant had no difficulty
in thrusting him back.</p>

<p><q>In view of what you've been telling us,
<pb n="210" /><anchor id="Pg210" />
you'd better not sprinkle bad names about,</q>
said the surgeon, turning on his heel. He was
followed by the others, all chuckling.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson,</q> said Doctor McCrea, when
the party was in the cabin, <q>are you my
friend?</q></p>

<p><q>I certainly am, sir,</q> cried Jack warmly.</p>

<p><q>Thank you,</q> said the doctor, making a comical
face. <q>With your head for doing things,
Mr. Benson, I feel safer with your friendship
than I should if I had your enmity.</q></p>

<p>While they were still chatting in the cabin
of the gunboat a shot sounded on deck. Then
a corporal of marines rushed in, saluting.</p>

<p><q>The prisoner, Truax, sir, escaped while
walking under guard on deck. He dived headlong,
sir. The marine guard fired after him
through the darkness, sir. The officer of the
deck sends his compliments, sir, and wants to
know if Truax is to be pursued in a small boat.</q></p>

<p><q>At once, and with all diligence,</q> ordered the
lieutenant commander.</p>

<p>Though a thorough search was made, Truax
was not found. It was thought that the fellow
had been drowned. But months later it was
learned that he was skulking in Europe with
Tip Gaynor, who had received word in time to
make his escape also.</p>

<p>For two days more the instruction continued
<pb n="211" /><anchor id="Pg211" />
at sea. Then, the tour of instruction over, the
little flotilla returned to the Academy at Annapolis.
From there Captain Benson wired Mr.
Farnum for further orders. Without delay
came back the dispatch:</p>

<p><q>Navy Department requests that for present
'Farnum' be left at Annapolis. You and crew
return by rail when ready.</q></p>

<p>Soon after this Jack was informed that the
Annapolis police had run down the mulatto who
had decoyed the young submarine skipper on
that memorable night. Jack's money, watch
and other valuables were later recovered and
returned to him.</p>

<p>Just before Jack and his mates were to leave
the <q>Farnum</q> for the last time, Lieutenant
Commander Mayhew came aboard, followed by
Ensign Trahern and three of the midshipmen
who had been under submarine instruction.</p>

<p><q>Mr. Benson and gentlemen,</q> said Mr. Mayhew,
<q>I shall not make a set speech. What I
have to say is that the cadet midshipmen who
have been under your capable and much-prized
instruction of late wish each of you to take
away a slight memento of your stay here.</q></p>

<p>Machinist Williamson had not been omitted.
Each of the four received from the lieutenant
commander a small box, each containing a small
gold shield. In the center was the coat of arms
<pb n="212" /><anchor id="Pg212" />
of the United States Naval Academy. At the
top of each pin was the name of the one to whom
it was given. Across the bottom were the
words:</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
FROM THE<lb />
BATTALION OF NAVAL CADETS<lb />
IN KEEN APPRECIATION<lb />
OF ADMIRABLE INSTRUCTION<lb />
</p>

<p>"I think," said Mr. Mayhew, "that none of
you will hesitate to wear this pin on vest or
coat lapel. The gift is a simple one, but it
practically makes you honorary members of the
United States Navy of the future, and I am glad
of it."</p>
</div>
</body>
<back>
<div rend="page-break-before: always">
<divGen type="pgfooter" />
</div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>

<!--
A WORD FROM PROJECT GUTENBERG


This file should be named 17756-0.txt or 17756-0.zip.

This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:


    http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/7/7/5/17756/


Updated editions will replace the previous one — the old editions will be
renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no one
owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and
you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission
and without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth in the
General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying and
distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the Project
Gutenberg™ concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered
trademark, and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you
receive specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of
this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given away
— you may do practically _anything_ with public domain eBooks.
Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE


_Please read this before you distribute or use this work._

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work (or
any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”),
you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project Gutenberg™
License (available with this file or online at
http://www.gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.


General Terms of Use & Redistributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works


1.A.


By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™ electronic work,
you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all the
terms of this license and intellectual property (trademark/copyright)
agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this
agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of
Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your possession. If you paid a fee
for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work
and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you may
obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set
forth in paragraph 1.E.8.


1.B.


“Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be used on or
associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be
bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few things that you can
do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works even without complying
with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph 1.C below. There are
a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg™ electronic works if you
follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to
Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.


1.C.


The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the Foundation” or
PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States. If an individual
work is in the public domain in the United States and you are located in
the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying,
distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based on
the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of
course, we hope that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of
promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project
Gutenberg™ works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for
keeping the Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can
easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when you
share it without charge with others.


1.D.


The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you
can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant
state of change. If you are outside the United States, check the laws of
your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before
downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creating
derivative works based on this work or any other Project Gutenberg™ work.
The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of
any work in any country outside the United States.


1.E.


Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:


1.E.1.


The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate access
to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear prominently whenever
any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work on which the phrase
“Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the phrase “Project Gutenberg”
is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied or
distributed:


    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
    almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away
    or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License
    included with this eBook or online at http://www.gutenberg.org


1.E.2.


If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is derived from the
public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is posted with
permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied and
distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees or
charges. If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you
must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7
or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.


1.E.3.


If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted with the
permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution must comply
with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional terms imposed
by the copyright holder. Additional terms will be linked to the Project
Gutenberg™ License for all works posted with the permission of the
copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.


1.E.4.


Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™ License
terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or any
other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.


1.E.5.


Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this electronic
work, or any part of this electronic work, without prominently displaying
the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with active links or immediate
access to the full terms of the Project Gutenberg™ License.


1.E.6.


You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed,
marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any word
processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format other than
“Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official version posted
on the official Project Gutenberg™ web site (http://www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other form.
Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg™ License as
specified in paragraph 1.E.1.


1.E.7.


Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing,
copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works unless you comply
with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.


1.E.8.


You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or
distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works provided that

    - You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
      the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method you
      already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed to
      the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has agreed to
      donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg
      Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid within 60
      days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally
      required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty payments
      should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg
      Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section 4,
      “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
      Archive Foundation.”

    - You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
      you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
      does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™ License.
      You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the
      works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and
      all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    - You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
      any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
      electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
      receipt of the work.

    - You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
      distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.


1.E.9.


If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg™ electronic
work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this
agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from both the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael Hart, the owner of the
Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in
Section 3 below.


1.F.


1.F.1.


Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to
identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread public domain
works in creating the Project Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these
efforts, Project Gutenberg™ electronic works, and the medium on which they
may be stored, may contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to,
incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright
or other intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk
or other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot
be read by your equipment.


1.F.2.


LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES — Except for the “Right of
Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project Gutenberg™
trademark, and any other party distributing a Project Gutenberg™
electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability to you for
damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE
NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH
OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3. YOU AGREE THAT THE
FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT
WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,
PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE.


1.F.3.


LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND — If you discover a defect in this
electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund
of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to
the person you received the work from. If you received the work on a
physical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation.
The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect
to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund. If you received the
work electronically, the person or entity providing it to you may choose
to give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically in
lieu of a refund. If the second copy is also defective, you may demand a
refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem.


1.F.4.


Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in
paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ’AS-IS,’ WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.


1.F.5.


Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied warranties or the
exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. If any disclaimer or
limitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the state
applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be interpreted to make
the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by the applicable state
law. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement
shall not void the remaining provisions.


1.F.6.


INDEMNITY — You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the trademark
owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone providing copies of
Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in accordance with this agreement, and
any volunteers associated with the production, promotion and distribution
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs
and expenses, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from
any of the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of
this or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any Defect
you cause.


Section  2.


           Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™


Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic
works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers including
obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It exists because of the
efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks
of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance
they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s goals and ensuring
that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will remain freely available for
generations to come. In 2001, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for
Project Gutenberg™ and future generations. To learn more about the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations
can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation web page at
http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.


   Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation


The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of
Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service.
The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541.
Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf. Contributions to the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full
extent permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr.
S. Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations. Its business office is located at 809 North
1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org. Email contact links and up to date contact information
can be found at the Foundation’s web site and official page at
http://www.pglaf.org

For additional contact information:


    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.


  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
                                Foundation


Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without wide spread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the
number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed
in machine readable form accessible by the widest array of equipment
including outdated equipment. Many small donations ($1 to $5,000) are
particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United States.
Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable
effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these
requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations where we have not
received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND DONATIONS or
determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit
http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we have
not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition against
accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach us
with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any
statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the
United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation methods
and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways including
checks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate, please
visit: http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate


Section 5.


      General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works.


Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg™
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with
anyone. For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project Gutenberg™
eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed editions,
all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S. unless a copyright
notice is included. Thus, we do not necessarily keep eBooks in compliance
with any particular paper edition.

Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook’s eBook
number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII, compressed
(zipped), HTML and others.

Corrected _editions_ of our eBooks replace the old file and take over the
old filename and etext number. The replaced older file is renamed.
_Versions_ based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receiving
new filenames and etext numbers.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:


    http://www.gutenberg.org


This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg™, including how
to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation,
how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to our email
newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
-->
